@@27150

Sacrifice Chapter One It was Philip Iverson 's big night . He stood at the podium of the Golden Gate Grand 's Crystal Ballroom and basked in the applause of San Francisco 's elite . As the audience rose to its feet , he took a step back and held up his hands , gesturing for everyone to sit down . In his midfifties , his trim runner 's body  --  draped tonight in an elegant tuxedo  --  and his close-cropped salt-and-pepper hair made him seem ten years younger . His pale blue eyes glistened as the emotion of the evening caught up with him , and he nodded to the people at the front tables . Some of them sat , then others , until , gradually , everyone in the ballroom took their seats . The huge room hummed in anticipation as Philip Iverson , the city 's best-loved citizen , finally stepped forward and adjusted the microphone . " Thank you , my friends . " He picked up the award he 'd just received . " Thank you for this honor . Thank you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many opportunities this great city has given me . " He returned the plaque to the lectern . " It is because of those opportunities that I feel especially fortunate to announce tonight my pledge of an additional fifty million dollars for a new cancer wing at Children 's Memorial Hospital . " The audience erupted in cheers . Philip Iverson held his hands out toward the crowd . " Thank you . Thank you so much . I just want to add that , with this gift , I and my Make It So Foundation have now passed one billion dollars in donations . And , my friends , we 're not stopping there . " He raised a champagne glass . " Here 's to you . Here 's to our beautiful city . And here 's to the next billion dollars ... with love ... from me to you ! " Everyone in the ballroom lifted their glasses to join him in the toast . Beyond the faces beaming up at him , beyond the shimmering chandeliers , beyond the smoked glass of the towering floor-to-ceiling windows , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming fog . - - - FOG . Like the cold breath of God , it descended on San Francisco . The heavy clouded air moved through the parking structure of the Golden Gate Grand . The dark shapes of the luxury cars on Level Seven grew more and more indistinct . And then they were invisible  --  afterimages of themselves in the mist . The green light of the exit sign above the stairwell door glowed dimly . A tiny beacon . The door burst open , throwing a sudden wedge of light onto the slick concrete surface . Philip Iverson , his hair now damp with sweat , raced through the door . His breath coming in desperate searing gasps , he jabbed in his coat pocket , frantically searching for his keys . He ripped them out and thumbed the remote as he ran . The door locks on a black Mercedes S600 popped up like sentries , and Iverson , thinking the haven of his car would save him , ran even faster . He chanced a look back . The light in the doorway was filled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iverson , and without hesitation , he pushed forward , parting the fog before him like a ghost . Philip Iverson was almost to his car when he slipped on a wet patch of grease . He scrambled to regain his footing and hurled himself toward the Mercedes . But it was too late . His pursuer was upon him . A sob of resignation catching in his throat , Iverson grabbed at the door of his car . A flash of light . An echoing pop . Philip Iverson gasped and stumbled forward , the bullet in his brain extinguishing his life even before he crumpled facedown on the cold concrete floor . Kneeling beside him , his pursuer barely had time to tear Iverson 's wallet out of his trousers when the squeal of tires  --  above or below he could n't tell  --  sent him racing back toward the stairwell . As he pulled the door shut , there was music , a fanfare coming from the ballroom , and applause . The fanfare reached its crescendo and the applause died away . The fog covered Philip Iverson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at her bedroom window watching the fog roll into San Leandro . It moved onto Oak Street , she thought , like some great enveloping cloud in a science-fiction movie . The grandfather clock at the bottom of the stairs chimed . Announcing midnight . Jane turned at the sound . Kenny Marks , her partner in the SFPD Homicide Division , snored softly in their bed . She crossed the room , brushed a kiss across his lips , and went out the door . Jane and Kenny had been married for four months . The floorboards of the upstairs hallway creaked as she walked . Passing the room that had been hers as a child , Jane entered the bathroom . This one bathroom , small and simple , had been the only one in a household of four when she was growing up . Jane flicked on the bathroom light and went to the mirror . She studied her face . Her eyes , black and shining , stared back at her as she touched her high cheekbones , her pale , almost translucent skin . She knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lately the gray hairs and the fine etching of tiny wrinkles around her eyes had begun to make her feel her age . Poppy used to say that her hair was the color of a blackbird 's wing . She grasped a gray hair between her thumb and forefinger and yanked it out . She would turn forty this month . " Hey , knock it off , " Kenny said as he came into the bathroom . He wrapped his arms around her . " I like those guys . " He flashed his easy smile and Jane kissed the scar on his chest . The size of a small coin , the bullet scar was a constant reminder that they were in a very dangerous business ...                     