@@26450

I Smell A Rat The chirping of birds heralded the dawning of a new day in Woodland Park , New Jersey . I sprang instantly alert and glanced out the window . The sky was still dark . Good . Plenty of time to get to the rendezvous point . I jumped down from my fleece-lined bed and paused to make sure that my boy , Aaron , was still asleep . He was . The soft snoring coming from beneath the duvet proved just that . Swift and silent as quicksilver I ran down the stairs and out the cat door in the back . I had practiced this exercise many times to make sure I had the timing down just right . Nine seconds . It was a warm spring morning . The patchy grass on the front lawn was moist with dew , and a light fog hung in the air . Perhaps we would have a lovely English-style rain later today , I thought hopefully . But I spared the weather no more thought as I ran down the block and past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : a large green truck was lifting the Dumpster behind the gas station in its two big hydraulic arms . I dashed across the street , still deserted at this hour , and leaped undetected onto one of the arms , hitching an easy ride to the top of the truck . The trash was dumped and the Dumpster set back down . Sixty-eight seconds on the whisker . With a shudder and a hiss , the truckpulled out of the gas station and turned east , carrying me with it as an invisible stowaway . Precisely according to plan . Riding a garbage truck was hardly my idea of traveling in style . Indeed , my previous human , Sir Archibald , had always chauffeured me around in his collection of classic jaguars . I could still remember the first time I laid eyes on him . I was just a kitten , living on a cat farm in the south of France , when one day a British spy named Archibald Ash pulled up in a red Jaguar C-Type . He was looking for the perfect cat to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear arms smuggler whose hobby was breeding showcats . After more than a year , we caught up to the smuggler on his yacht off the coast of Monte Carlo . When Sir Archibald and I stormed the boat , only one of his cats escaped , although it was his favorite , a Persian named Macavity . No accounting for taste : the fluffy white cat was polydactyl  --  that is , six-toed  --  and could only show in the Household Pet category . But all the important showcats in his collection were taken into custody , and the smuggler himself was sent to pay for his crimes . Sir Archibald and I always got our mark . Sir Archibald had been the Director of a top-secret counterspy agency in England , an organization so secret that I 'm afraid I may not even reveal its true name . For convenience , we shall call it simply M19 ... Continues ...                     