@@33550

Working for a handsome man is fraught with difficulties . To those girl-bachelors so employed , I recommend an unflappable temperament , an unbreakable heart , and plenty of handkerchiefs . Mrs. Bartleby Advice to Girl-Bachelors , 1893 " Why ? " The exotic , raven-haired creature in tangerine silk started to cry . " Why has he done this to me ? " Miss Emmaline Dove did not venture a reply to that question . Practical , as always , she saved her breath and pulled out a handkerchief . She handed it to the woman on the other side of the desk without a word . Juliette Bordeaux , the now-former mistress of Emma 's employer , Viscount Marlowe , snatched the offered square of cambric . " Six blissful months we have had together , and when I receive from his footman the pretty little box , I am happy . But then I find a letter with the present , a letter which ends our amour . Mon Dieu ! He thinks with jewels to soften the blow that shatters my heart ! How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sobbed with an abandonment that was wholly French and somewhat theatrical . " Oh , Harry ! " Emma shifted uncomfortably in her chair and cast a glance at the ormolu clock on her desk . Half past six . Marlowe could return any minute , and she wanted tospeak with him about her new manuscript before he went on to his sister 's birthday party . She was fairly certain he 'd be back to his offices yet this evening . The present she had purchased for Lady Phoebe on his behalf was still here , wrapped and waiting . Unless he had forgotten the evening 's festivities altogether , which she had to admit was not an unheard-of possibility , he had to fetch the gift from here before going home . This was her best chance to speak with him , she knew , for he was leaving on the morrow for a week at his estate in Berkshire . With no meetings to be rushing off to and no deals to negotiate , and with his family remaining in town , he would have leisure time at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country would put him in a more relaxed frame of mind and enable him to see her work in a more favorable light than he had in the past . It was worth a try anyway . Emma 's gaze moved to the typewriting machine on her credenza and the tidy stack of manuscript pages beside it . Her own birthday was only eight days from now , and if Marlowe agreed to publish her writing at last , what a wonderful birthday present that would be . Suddenly , a vague disquiet stole over her , something so at odds with the delicious sense of anticipation she 'd been savoring a moment before that Emma was startled . It was a feeling hard to define , but there was dissatisfaction in it , and a sense of restlessness . She tried to dismiss it . Perhaps she was just afraid of another rejection . After all , Marlowe had rejected her four previous literary efforts . He felt etiquette books were unprofitable , but Emma knew that was because the advice offered in most of them was hopelessly old-fashioned , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In light of that , she had worked especially hard with her newest manuscript to create something fresh and current . If she could just explain to Marlowe why this new book would have pop-u-lar appeal , he might be more receptive to it , especially if he was then able to read it with no distractions in the relaxed atmosphere of the country . Miss Bordeaux , however , showed no sign of departing . Emma studied the distraught woman on the other side of the desk , trying to find a polite way of getting her out the door . If Marlowe 's former mistress was still here when he returned , the pair would no doubt have a row , any conversation Emma wished to have with her employer about her book would be impossible , and a golden opportunity would be lost . Some might have deemed her inattention and lack of sympathy toward the woman opposite to be coldhearted . But that was not really so . As Marlowe 's secretary for five years now , she had seen the viscount 's mistresses come and go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little to do with such arrangements . Miss Bordeaux was a cancan dancer in a music hall who accepted money from gentlemen in exchange for her favors . She could hardly expect love to result from such an illicit liaison . But perhaps , Emma reflected , these observations were unfair . His lordship did have a potent effect upon many members of the female sex . Some of his appeal , no doubt , was due to the fact that he was one of Britain 's rarest commodities : an eligible peer with money . But there was more to it than that . Whenever Harrison Robert Marlowe entered a room where women were present , there was always an inordinate amount of fluttering , hair-patting , and sighing . Resting her elbow on the desk and her cheek in her hand , Emma considered her employer with thoughtful detachment as Miss Bordeaux continued to weep over him with dramatic fervor . He was handsome . A woman would have to be blind not to notice that . His eyes , a most extraordinary shade of deep blue , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was a well-proportioned man , too , very tall , with fine , wide shoulders . He had wit and a boyish sort of charm , the latter trait enhanced by what could only be described as a devastating smile . Emma imagined that smile without feeling any increase in the pace of her pulse , but she had n't always been immune . There had been a time early in her employment with the viscount when she had felt that fluttering , feminine thrill at the sight of his smile . In the beginning , she had even patted her hair and sighed a time or two . But she 'd realized early on that nothing honorable could come of such hopes . Aside from their difference . . .                     