@@493850

Barry Goldwater was censured during the election campaign for wanting to extend the Vietnam war . Now General Maxwell Taylor , the US Ambassador to Saigon , will try to sell the same plan to President Johnson in Washington this week . Goldwater said if he were President he would bomb routes over which supplies and reinforcements reach guerrilla fighters in South Vietnam , " wherever they may be , either by sea or most importantly through North Vietnam , Laos or Cambodia . " General Taylor advises bombing points in North Vietnam and in Laos . Whatever Mr. Johnson thinks today , he was opposed to such a scheme at the end of September . Talking in New Hampshire about retaliation in the Tonkin Gulf , he said the US had dropped bombs within 35 miles of the Chinese border , and added : " I do n't know what you would think if they started dropping them 35 miles from your border , but I think that is something you have to take into consideration . So we are not going North and we are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we have been out there is bad , but it is not like 190,000 that we might lose the first month , if we escalated that war . " Ambassador Taylor has been driven to more extreme proposals because the war which has been going badly for some time is now going very badly , with brawls in Saigon , falling morale and many army desertions . But erosion in the South did not strike President Johnson , in September , as being sufficient reason for attacking the North . He said then : " When a brigadier general can walk down the street of Saigon as they did the other day , and take over the police station , the radio station and the government without firing a shot , I do n't know how much offensive we are prepared to launch . " Those who recommend extending the war have not satisfactorily explained how bombing Laotian jungle trails or North Vietnamese ports and training centers would stop the rot in Saigon , undermine the will of the Viet Cong or transform the soldiers of the South into an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South from the North years ago . They have survived and expanded their domain under the most adverse physical conditions and seem to have kept themselves amply supplied with modern weapons by capturing American arms from Saigon 's army of 200,000 men . The guerrillas ' fighting numbers have never been put much higher than 30,000 . They are said by US officials to have highly skilled , selfless leaders , who get their military training in North Vietnam . Would bombing the North put an end either to that training or to the persistence of the Viet Cong ? The US is committed to helping the Saigon government stay alive and has been doing so for io years . Neither President Johnson nor his predecessors , however , have been committed to doing for the Vietnamese what they will not or can not do for themselves . We have saddled the horse , led it to water , provided the water . Beyond that how far does loyalty and the US national interest require us to go ? Now that the world knows from so authoritative a source as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be prevented from worsening without extending the war , then the logical alternative is to suggest to South Vietnam that it seek peace . Neither the US nor the South Vietnamese government need sit down at a conference table with the blank feeling of having no cards in their hands . Quite to the contrary , the US is by far the strongest power in Asia as well as in the world , and the South Vietnamese authorities are in command of one of the largest armies . The South Vietnamese army is still a considerable factor for use in political haggling . One of the barriers to a peace parley has been a feeling , amounting almost to an obsession , that Americans and their allies are no match for the wily Communists when it comes to bargaining , when they will inevitably be outwitted . It is difficult to understand such diffidence . The South Vietnamese government is not winning the war ; but it has not yet lost it and the US ought certainly to try to exact a price for not extending it . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the phased withdrawal of US forces from South Vietnam . But this does not by any means imply that the US is bound , from the start and by the mere fact of agreeing to discussions , to withdraw its forces on any terms the Viet Cong or North Vietnam dictate . The idea of a conference is to try to achieve a compromise settlement that is acceptable to all parties . That the military situation is deteriorating suggests the advisability of finding out about terms now rather than after the guerrillas have perhaps scored further successes with the ending of the rainy season . It does not , however , mean that the only choice now for the US or Saigon is unconditional surrender . The morale of the Viet Cong is currently high , but if they are prudent men they know that such things can change . North Vietnam has had a poor harvest and can not be untouched by the drain on its slender resources of assisting a long-drawn civil war . To end the fighting is in their interests too , and they must be prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saigon . The Viet Cong may reasonably demand their own inclusion in a new coalition government in Saigon . But their entry ought to beon terms that can be agreed to by the Buddhists and other elements of South Vietnam 's varied political spectrum , few or none of whom are pro-Communist . If the Viet Cong agree to conditions that the other elements accept as not unreasonable , the staged withdrawal of US military forces from the country can be contingent on the Viet Cong keeping their word . Any settlement that is reached ought to be backed up by both the US and China , and by as many other countries as can be persuaded to endorse it . It will be objected that once they are in the government and the last US soldier has left , the Viet Cong will do all in their power to weaken their rivals or liquidate them altogether , and that a determined attempt will be made to unify the North and South under a single , all-Communist government . The possibility certainly must be faced that at some point a neutralized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist . That has to be weighed against the possible consequences of continuing the war and extending it to the North , thus risking an all-out confrontation with China . The latter risks are easier to assess than - trying to predict how a Communist Vietnam would affect its neighbors or the US , or what its relations with China would be over the years . We have seen in countries like Poland and Yugoslavia , however , what diversities in cultural and national identities produce . It is said that if the US pulls out of Vietnam , the Chinese Communists with their accomplices in Vietnam will sooner or later proceed to overrun Laos , Cambodia , Thailand and Malaysia . This is what Goldwater has continually hinted at ; it is , at bottom , the argument for preventive war . But a preventive war with China has never been seriously considered by any responsible person in the Johnson , Kennedy or Eisenhower Administrations . And for a very good reason . No responsible government , and certainly no government in this nuclear age , goes to war on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at some future time . It is not unreasonable to imagine that with their immense problems of internal reconstruction both Vietnam and China would hesitate , at least during this decade , to undertake so hazardous an enterprise as the conquest of all of South Asia . A US withdrawal from Vietnam would not be a US withdrawal from the Pacific . It is not suggested for instance that Thailand be abandoned . And there is substantial historical evidence that the Vietnamese , North and South , themselves have no wish to be under China 's thumb and would struggle against that fate . Things no doubt have now gone too far for there to be any longer a " good " solution of the Vietnam war . But the possibilities ensuing from a compromise settlement in place of continued fighting may not be quite so black as they are customarily painted . DECEMBER 5 , 1964 The McNamara Cutback For the fourth successive year , Defense Secretary Robert McNamara has plugged his ears to bipartisan howls and ordered the closing of a large number of military installations , So scattered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three military services . They include supply , maintenance , repair and storage activities and also a few bomber and missile bases which the Secretary regards as expendable . There will be no reduction of combat troops . Mr. McNamara 's several programs for effecting large economies in defense expenditures , of which the shut-downs are one , have involved reorganization of departments to eliminate conspicuous duplication and administrative waste . They have called for an intensive combing-out of the procurement processes , such as cutting down on the cost-plus-fee contract and the negotiated contract ( both principles still recognized as necessary in some of the more advanced adventures in technology ) in favor of straight-out competition for business with larger promise of low prices and with incentive clauses providing a bonus for work better than agreed upon , and a deduction for inferior performance . These have been outstanding reforms , of ten sharply opposed at the outset . The Secretary 's November 19 order , like those in 1961 , ' 6z and ' 63 has raised alarms not from the three services which endorsed it unanimously , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 574 installations off the list , displaced 85,000 employees , and promised annual saving of $576 million . The mammoth nature of the new order is indicated by the fact that , involving only 95 sites , it is displacing 63,000 employees and promises savings of $477 million . The new close-downs include two of the nation 's 11 naval shipyards ( Portsmouth , N. H. , and Brooklyn , N. Y. ) and the merged management of two in the San Francisco area ; shifting work of the big wartime base terminal in Brooklyn to the nearby docks at Bayonne , N. J. ; dropping six Air Force bomber-bases ( the phasing out of older bombers and a number of early missile bases whose function is being taken over by the newer Minuteman ICBM ) . In all cases time is allowed for the community to make new and often better use of the land and buildings , and for the comfort of the displaced employees . These men will be retrained at government expense and kept on government pay and moved to other comparable work where practicable . Experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 574 sites , disposition has already been made of 250 , variously for local airports , for educational or health or recreational purposes or for industrial sites . However , New York City at least , is not convinced . It sent to Washington the Mayor , two Senators and one politically potent Senator-elect ( with a governor and other Congressmen subsequently adding complaints ) in an effort to dissuade Secretary McNamara . They failed . He remarked that of the 574 close-down orders of the previous three years not one had been rescinded , and he regarded the present 95 orders as " irrevocable . " This calls for large qualities in a Defense Secretary . None of his predecessors dared take such mighty steps . " Politics " forbade ' it . Fortunately Secretary McNamara cares too little for politics to be scared . Krebiozen Scandal Since being introduced to the world 13 years ago in a press conference that violated the medical custom of discreet ventilation in professional journals of new drugs , everything about the alleged anti-cancer Krebiozen has been unorthodox . Now the government claims that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies about patients ' progress ( one they said was alive and well had been dead for six years ) . Krebiozen was " discovered " by Dr. Steven Durovic , a Yugoslav political refugee , and was promoted by him and Dr. Andrew C. Ivy , a noted medical scholar who was vice president of the University of Illinois . Their persistent refusal to accept their medical colleagues ' negative verdict on Krebiozen angered the profession . Ivy and Durovic retorted to charges that the drug was worthless by cries of " conspiracy " and gathered a small but understandably vociferous band of supporters among cancer victims who believe their lives depend on continuing doses of the drug . In the beginning Durovic was somewhat furtive about his operations and Ivy trusted him chiefly because Krebiozen , supposedly produced from the blood of horses , fitted a theory of Ivy that the human body contains an anti-cancer substance that could be extracted and used in treatment . The rest of the profession did not share Ivy 's view , though research on similar lines has recently come into fashion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Krebiozen as that Durovic alone knew how the substance was manufactured , and no one at all knew its chemical nature . It was also felt that Ivy and Durovic had violated medical ethics by testing the substance on human patients before more was known about it . Perhaps the most astonishing and disquieting aspect of the case is that only after a decade of inconclusive bickering did two federal agencies take a belated interest . In 1963 the Food and Drug Administration said , after nine months ' investigation , that Krebiozen was the common laboratory chemical , creatine . Shortly after , an expert committee assembled by the Public Health Service to review the medical records of Ivy 's 504 " best cases " concluded they showed no evidence that Krebiozen was of value against cancer . But there has never been the one thing that Ivy and Durovic campaigned for all along , an actual controlled test of the drug on human patients . The scientists and government officials involved have declared their unwillingness to deprive patients of standard treatment in order to test a drug lacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense if the standard treatment in fact offered any real hope to advanced cancer victims , or if experimentation with drugs of unproved value were not already widely practiced . The federal grand jury 's indictment means that the arguments about Krebiozen will be heard in court by men and women who are not scientists .                     