@@389750

Headnote Why buying food from farmers we know and trust is best for our communities , our health and our planet . Farming is not for everybody ; increasingly , it 's hardly for anybody . Over the last decade our country has lost an average of 300 farms a week . Large or small , each of those was die life 's work of a real person or family , people who built dieir lives around a promise and watched it break . Wherever farms are still living , it 's due to some combination of luck , courage and adaptability . In my home state , Kentucky , our agriculture is known for two nonedible commodities : tobacco and race horses . The latter is a highly capitalized industry that spreads little of its wealth into the small family farm ; the former was the small farm 's bottom dollar , until the bottom dropped out . In my lifetime Kentucky farmers have mostly had the options of going broke , or going six ways to Sunday for the sake of staying solvent . On die @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , more modest enterprises with names like " Hard Times Farm " and " Modier Hubbard 's " are now raising pasture-fed beef , pork , lamb and turkeys . Kentucky farms produce flowers , garlic , organic berries and vegetables , emu and ostrich products , catfish and rainbow trout . Right off the Paris Pike , a country lane I drove a hundred times in my teenage years , a farmer named Sue now grows freshwater shrimp . Among other obstacles , these farmers have to contend with a national press that is quick to pronounce them dead . Diversified food-producing farms on the outskirts of cities are actually the fastest growing sector of U.S. agriculture . The small farm is at the moment very busy thinking its way out of a box , working like mad to protect the goodness and food security of a largely ungrateful nation . These producers ca n't survive by catering only to the upscale market , either . The majority of farmers market customers are people of ordinary means , and low-income households are not necessarily excluded . An urban area in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allowing regional farmers to get produce into neighborhoods whose only other foodpurchasing option might be a liquor store . The U.S. assistance program for women with infant children ( WIC ) gives coupons redeemable at farmers markets to more than 2.5 million participants in 44 states . Citizen-led programs from California to New York are linking small farmers with school lunch programs and food banks . Even so , a perception of organic food as an elite privilege is a considerable obstacle to the farmer growing food for middle-income customers whose highest food-shopping priority is the lowest price . Raising food without polluting the field or the product will always cost more than the conventional mode that externalizes costs to taxpayers and the future . To farm sustainably and also stay in business , these market gardeners have to bridge the psychological gap between what consumers could pay , and what we will actually shell out . WHAT CHEAP FOOD REALLY COSTS Grocery money is an odd sticking point for U.S. citizens , who on average spend a lower proportion of our income on food than people in any other country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even in school lunches , we broadly justify consumption of tallow-fried animal pulp on the grounds that it 's cheaper than whole grains , fresh vegetables , hormone-free dairy and such . Whether on school boards or in families , budget keepers may be aware of the health trade-off but still feel compelled to economize on food-in a manner that would be utterly unacceptable if the health risk involved an unsafe family vehicle or a plume of benzene running through a school basement . It 's interesting that penny-pinching is an accepted defense for toxic food habits , when frugality so rarely rules other consumer domains . At any income level , we can be relied upon for categorically unnecessary purchases : portable-earplug music instead of the radio ; extra-fast Internet for leisure use ; heavy vehicles to transport light loads ; name-brand clothing instead of plainer gear . " Economizing , " as applied to clothing , generally means looking for discount name brands instead of wearing last year 's clothes again . The dread of rearing unfashionable children is understandable . But as a priority , " makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functional " and left the kids huffing and puffing in the dust . Nobody should need science to prove the obvious , but plenty of studies do show that regularly eating cheaply produced fast food and processed snack foods slaps on extra pounds that increase the risks of diabetes , cardiovascular harm , joint problems and many cancers . As a country we 're officially over the top : the majority of our food dollars buy those cheap calories , and two-thirds of our citizens are medically compromised by weight . The incidence of obesity-associated diabetes has doubled since 1990 , with children the fastest growing class of victims . One out of every $7 we spend on health care pays to assuage ( but not cure ) die multiple heartbreaks of diabetes-kidney failure , strokes , blindness , amputated limbs . An embarrassing but arguable point is that were applying deadly priorities to our food budgets because we believe the commercials . Industrial agriculture can promote its products on a supersized scale . Eighty percent of the beef-packing industry is controlled by four companies ; the consolidation is exactly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weighing in on the side of beef and added fats , it 's no surprise that billions of dollars a year go into advertising fast food . The surprise is how handsomely marketers recoup that investment : how successfully they convince us that cheap food will make us happy , and maybe even chin . How delusional are we , exactly ? Insisting to farmers that our food has to be cheap is like commanding a 10-year-old to choose a profession and move out of the house now . It violates the spirit of the enterprise . It guarantees bad results . The economy of the arrangement will come around to haunt you . Anyone with a working knowledge of children would get that . Similarly , it takes a farmer to understand the analogous truth about food production-that time and care yield quality that matters-and explain that to the rest of us . Industry will not , but individual market growers can communicate concern that they 're growing food in a way that 's healthy and safe , for people and place . They can educate consumers about a supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make it . That information does n't fit in a five-syllable jingle . And those growers will never win a price war either . The best they can hope for is a marketing tactic known as friendship , or something like it . Their task is to communicate the consumer value of their care , and how it benefits the neighborhood . This may seem like a losing battle . But the " Buy Cheap Eats " crusade is assisting the deaths of our compatriots at the rate of about 820 a day ; somebody 's bound to notice that . We are a social animal . The cost-benefit ratios of neighborliness are as old as our species , and probably inescapable in the end . FRESH , FLAVORFUL FOOD Ashfield , Mass. , is as cute as it gets , even by the standards of small town New England . Downtown is anchored by a hardware store with rocking chairs on the front porch . The big local social event where folks catch up with their neighbors is the weekly farmers market . I did n't know this when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We brought our cooler in with the luggage , planning to give our hostess some of our little fist-sized tomatoes . These carefully June-ripened treasures would wow the New Englanders , I thought . Oops . As I started to pull them out of the cooler I spied half a dozen huge red tomatoes , languidly sunning their shapely shoulders in our friend 's kitchen window . These bodacious babes made our " Early Siberians " look like Miss Congeniality . I pulled out some blackheart cherries instead , presenting them along with an offhand question : urn , so , where did those tomatoes come from ? " Oh , from Amy at the farmers market , " she said . " Are n't they nice ? " Nice , I thought . In the third week of June , in western Mass , if they taste as good as they look they 're a doggone miracle . I was extremely curious . Our host promised that during our visit she would take us to see Amy , the tomato magician . On the appointed morning we took a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a farm where Amy grows vegetables and her partner Paul works as a consultant in the design and construction of innovative housing . Their own house is pretty much the definition of innovative : a little round , mushroom-shaped structure whose sod-and-moss roof was covered in a summer pelt of jewelweeds . It was the kind of setting that leads you to expect an elf , maybe , but Paul and Amy stepped out instead . They invited us up to the roof where we could sit on a little bench . Ulan the dog followed us up the ladder stairs and sat panting happily as we took in the view of the creek valley below . Part of Pauls work in dynamic housing design is ro encourage people to think more broadly about both construction materials ( walls of stacked straw bales are his specialty ) , and how to use space creatively ( e.g. , dog on the roof ) . I could n't wait to see the gardens . First , though , we had to eat the breakfast they 'd made in their tiny , efficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eggs , salsa made with Amy 's enviable tomatoes . We lingered , talking farming and housing , but the day called us out to the fields where rows of produce were already gulping morning sun . Amy , a self-described perfectionist , apologized for die state of what looked to me like the tidiest rows imaginable-more weedless than our garden on the best of days . Part-time interns sometimes help out , but the farm runs on Amy 's full-time dedication . A mid-June New England garden , two weeks past the last frost , is predominandy green : lacy bouquets of salad greens , Chinese cabbage , cilantro , broccoli and peas . A tomato of any type seemed out of the question , until we crested a hill and came upon two long greenhouses . These are the sturdy workhorses of the farm , with heavy-duty plastic skins supported by wooden trusses . Amy no longer grows tomatoes anywhere except in a greenhouse . Cool spring soil , late frosts and iffy New England weather make the season too short for noteworthy harvests of outdoor-planted tomatoes . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ norm for large-scale tomato houses . Her greenhouses are built over garden soil , her tomatoes grow in the ground . " They taste better , " she said . " It 's probably the micronutrients and microfauna in the soil that give them that garden taste . So many components of soil just are n't present in a more sterile environment . " Heating greenhouses through the Massachusetts winter did n't appeal to Paul and Amy either . After a few years of experiments , they 've found it most cost-effective to heat with a combination of propane and woodstoves-or not at all . One of the houses is exclusively a cold frame , extending the season for salad greens , spinach and other crops that can survive temperatures down to the mid-20s . Amy 's greens will sell all winter for about $7 a pound . Her second greenhouse is heated , she said , but only in spring . As we approached it I peered in the door and actually gasped . Holy tomato . I 've never seen healthier , more content-looking plants : 10 feet tall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground to the rafters . If there were an Angel Choir of tomatoes , these would be singing . The breed she grows is one meant especially for greenhouses , a variety ( perfectly enough ) called " Trust . " Amy was inspiring to watch , a knowledgeable farmer in her element as she narrowed her eyes for signs of pests , pausing to finger a leaf and study its color . We walked among the tall plants admiring the clusters of fruits hanging from bottom to top in a color gradient from mature red fruits below to the new , greenish-white ones overhead . The support-strings were rolled around spindles up above that could be cranked to lower the plant down gradually , as the top continues to climb . Tomato plants habitually lose their lower leaves as they grow ; the point of this system is to coil the leafless stems on the ground and let the healthy growing part keep twining upward . But these plants were so healthy they refused to lose any lower leaves . Our daughter Lily played hide-and-seek in the tomato wilderness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it a little more each year , but already her operation is an obvious success . The last time she had soil tests , the technicians who came to evaluate her compost-built organic dirt had never seen such high nutrient values . The greatest limitation here is temperature ; she could keep tomatoes growing all winter , but the cost of fuel would pass her profit margin . In early spring , when she 's starting the plants , she economizes by heating the soil under the seedlings ( woodstove-heated water runs through underground pipes ) while letting air temperatures drop fairly low . Pushing the season early is more important than late , she says . People will pay more for a June tomato than one in October , when tomatoes are old hat , dropping off the vines in gardens everywhere . By starting in the spring , she can bring bushels of " Trust " out of her greenhouse to thrilled customers long before anything red is coming out of local gardens . I observed that in the first week of June , she could charge anything she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But I do n't . I belong to this community , people know me . I would n't want to take advantage . " She is more than just part of me community-she was a co-founder of the hugely successful Ashfield farmers market . She sells to individuals and restaurants , and enjoys a local diet by relying on other producers for the things she does n't grow . " We do n't have chickens , for example , because so many other people do . We trade vegetables for eggs and meat . " Their favorite local restaurant buys Amy 's produce all summer , the last two months for credit , so that in winter she and Paul can eat there whenever they want . He deems the arrangement " a great substitute for canning . " FOOD YOU CAN TRUST Like many small farms , this perfectly organic operation is not certified organic . Amy estimates certification would cost her $700 a year , and she would n't gain that much value from it . Virtually everyone who buys her food knows Amy personally ; many have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemical-free farming because she values her health , her products , the safety of her interns and customers , and the profoundly viable soil of her fields and greenhouses . Farmers like Amy generally agree that organic standards are a good thing on principle . When consumers purchase food at a distance from where its grown , certification lets them know it was grown in conditions that are clearly codified and enforced . Farmers who sell directly to their customers , on the other hand , generally do n't need watchdogs-their livelihood tends to be a mission as well as a business . Amy 's customers trust her methods . No federal bureaucracy can replace that relationship . Furthermore , the paper trail of organic standards offers only limited guarantees to the consumer . Specifically , it certifies that vegetables were grown without genetic engineering or broadly toxic chemical herbicides or pesticides ; animals were not given growth-promoting hormones or antibiotics . " Certified organic " does not mean sustainably grown , worker-friendly , fuel-efficient , cruelty-free or many other virtues a consumer might wish for . The rising consumer interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giant food conglomerates to cash in , at some level . These big players have successfully moved the likes of bagged salads and hormone-free milk from boutique to mainstream markets and even big-box stores . But low price has its costs . In order to meet federal organic standards as cheaply as possible and maximize profits , some industrial-scale organic producers ( though not all ) cut every corner that 's allowed , and are lobbying the government to loosen organic rules further . Some synthetic additives are now permitted , thanks to pressure from industrial organics . So is animal confinement . A chicken may be sold as " free range " if the house in which it 's confined ( with 20,000 others ) has a doorway leading out to a tiny yard , even though that doorway remains shut for so much of the chickens ' lives they never learn to go outside . This is not a theoretical example . The larger the corporation , the more distant its motives are apt to be from the original spirit of organic farming-and the farther the products will likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm picture on the package , and never be the wiser . The original stated purpose of organic agriculture was not just to protect the quality of foods , but also to safeguard farm environments and communities through diversified , biologically natural practices that remain healthy over time . This was outlined by J.I. Rodale , Sir Albert Howard , Lady Eve Balfour and all other significant contributors to the theory and practice of modern organic agriculture . Implicitly , these are values that many consumers still think they 're supporting with their purchase of organic products . Increasingly , small-scale food farmers like Amy feel corporate organics are betraying that confidence , extracting too much in the short term from their biotic and human communities , stealing the heart of a movement . The best and only defense , for both growers and the consumers who care , is a commitment to more local food economies . It may not be possible to prevent the corruption of codified organic standards when they are so broadly applied . A process as complex as sustainable agriculture ca n't be fully mandated or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happy marriage . Corporate growers , if their only motive is profit , will find ways to follow the letter of organic regulations while violating their spirit . But " Locally Grown " is a denomination whose meaning is incorruptible . Sparing the transportation fuel , packaging and unhealthy additives is a compelling part of the story , but the plot goes well beyond that . Local food is a handshake deal in a community gathering place . It involves farmers with first names , who show up week after week . It means an open door policy on the fields , where neighborhood buyers are welcome to come have a look , and pick their food from the vine . Local is farmers growing trust . Sidebar Excerpted from Animal , Vegetable , Miracle : A Year of Food Life . ( HarperCollins , May 2007 ) To order , see Page 135 . Sidebar Above : Heirloom tomatoes for sale at a farmers market . Below : Movable greenhouses and row covers extend the growing season at Sidehill Farm in Ashfield , Mass . Sidebar An embarrassing but arguable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food budgets because we believe the commercials . Sidebar Paul Lacinski and Amy Klippenstein raise non-certified organic produce at Sidehill Farm , in Ashfield , Mass . Growing tomatoes and basil under cover provides extra warmth and produces spectacular results . Sidebar These trellises are used to grow pole beans during the summer . In winter , the structure is converted to a hoop house for growing salad greens . Sidebar Local food is a handshake deal in a community gathering place . It involves farmers with first names , who show up week after week . <p>                     