@@494350

EARLY in the Spring of this year , our Secreta of State went to the Tenth Inter-American Conference at Caracas , Venezuela , determined to do one thing and one thing only . In Guatemala , the long-talked about , but in effect ignored , possibility that Communists would establish a center of power in a part of the Western Hemisphere ripe for their work had become a harsh reality . And Dulles wanted the conference to produce a flat warning that the " domination or control of the political institutions of any American state by the international Communist movement " would be resisted by all the American states as a threat to their " sovereignty and political independence . " The other delegates came to Caracas hoping to make a start toward solving the many economic and social problems plaguing their peoples . Those from the few Latin American nations with a tradition of democracy w anted to broaden the US resolution into a statement critical of all forms of totalitarian regimes and a promise that the people of Latin America would not eventually have to choose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alternative of improving their lot while remaining or becoming free men . But Dulles knew he could get the various Latin American regimeS to agree to be again.rt Communism , but not to be fat ' any specific alternative ; he wanted a show of strength and a simple statement which the Communists could not mock . He won . But there was a price for victory : a promise that all that had been set aside would be taken up later , that the US would immediately re-examine her Latin American policy and return later in the year prepared to discuss , in new terms , ways and means of doing for the American states what ' since the war she had done for Eu- , . The Economic Conference just ended at Rio de Janeiro is the result of that promise . It was to be an important ? even an epoch-making ? conference . The expectations which it aroused among Latin Americans could hardly be exaggerated . And it has produced one or two positive results . But when compared with the job to be done and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps , in what should have been a brisk marathon start . And the fault is squarely ours , At Rio , the delegates had to make the best of a bad thing . That it would be bad had been known for some weeks past , ever since it became clear that what we would offer had been decided not by the State Department and men long familiar with Latin American problems , but by Treasury Secretary George Humphrey . How inadequate that offer would be was indicated by the resignation , on the eve of the conference , of our delegate to the Inter-American Economic and Social Council , Ambassador Merwin L. Bohan , the resignation , earlier , of Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs John Cabot , and the refusal of the President 's brother Milton Eisenhower to join the US delegation . After making , at the President 's request , a 5-week fact-finding tour last year , Milton Eisenhower filed a report suggesting what the broad lines of a new US Latin American policy should be . His ideas , although conservative , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cabot , a career foreign service ? officer since 1926 , , has spent the bulk of those years in Latin America and is one of our best-informed experts on the area . He was - appointed Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs by President Eisenhower , and he accompanied Milton Eisenhower on his fact-finding trip . He helped write the report Humphrey has ignored . He now is our Ambassador to Sweden . Merwin Bohan has worked with Latin American eco-nomic problems , for the State and Commerce Depart-ments as well as for private industry , since 1917 . Al-though retired from government service , he was asked to return as US Ambassador to the Inter-American Econom ic and Social Council because of the respect with which he was regarded by Latin American officials . A hard trader and scrupulously honest , Bohan has been one of the most effective spokes-men we have had in Latin America . He stayed with his job as long as there seemed hope of influencing Humphrey 's stand . On Sep tember 21 he met behind closed doors in Washington with representatives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States policy statement . " It consisted of five paragraphs of platitudes and generalities : the United States is interested in the economic development of the American Republics ; the United States is prepared to lend technical assistance ; the United States urges the Republics to use " sound " methods , help themselves , and cherish private enterprise . For three hours one delegate after another , led by Costa Rica 's Jorge Hozera , President of the Economic and Social Council , asked Bohan why the United States declaration had not referred to any of the specific problems which were to be taken up at Rio . They asked him in effect just what the United States position would be , for the " declaration " told them nothing they did not already know , Where was the " reexamined , " the " new " United States policy ? One supposes this reaction and its implications were reported to Humphrey ; and that he was aware during the following weeks that out of every Latin American embassy in Washington came the private and informal warning that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have no conference at all than one which could justly be presented to the people of Latin America as a sell-out of their hopes . Yet almost two months later , on October 27 , the same empty generalities were reiterated , at length , as the official United States policy-line , in a speech by John Cabot 's successor , Henry F. Holland , to the . Pan American Society . A few weeks later , discouraged , Bohan resigned . The three men --  -- Milton Eisenhower , John Cabot , Merwin Bohan ? have one characteristic in common : they are conservative , tough-minded champions of US inter-13 ests in an area about which they are each better informed than George Humphrey . Why then did each of them , separately and at different times , feel required to disassociate himself from the policy-line Humphrey insisted would be held at Rio ? Treasury Secretary Humphrey is mortally convinced that private enterprise is a sacred thing ? sacred not in the sense of being one essential foundation stone of , a free and dynamic society , but in the sense that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use to better their lives and that whatever it can not do , can not and should not be done . This essentially is the attitude Herbert Hoover held to when the depression of the ' 30s reduced our living conditions to a level where such formulas for quick economic advancement as Communism and Fascism found more willing adherents in the United States than ever before or since . It is the attitude which during those years drove the people of one nation after another into accepting one of these forms of statism as the only alternative to economic stagnation . Some fortunate nations produced leaders bold enough to experiment with ways of jointly using both private and public enterprise so as to avoid the extremes , and the worst evils , of either . The experiment worked for us and the other free , industrial nations of the world . But those in which the experiment failed or was not tried now challenge us j everywhere . For the nations which are just beginning to enter the industrial age ? and whose people today live in subhuman conditions which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now in the process of choosing between our way , which preserves freedom , and the statist way which demands its sacrifice . They will choose and they will act . And they are in a hurry . One , China with its 500 million people , already has chosen . Latin America today contains 171 million people ? in 25 years the figure will be 275 million : it isthe fastest . . . ry growing population , in the world . Contra to i what is thought , these people have made amazing progress during the past 10 years ? since 1945 the gross national product of Latin America has grown by 50 percent ; they started with very little , but have made progress enough to have learned what can be had . There are things which need to be done in Latin America , that these people insist be done , and fast , which private enterprise alone can not do , should not be asked to do . And if the vast tasks which do not return an immediate profit in currency are left undone because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are likely to listen to those who argue that only by abolishing all private enterprise will the job get done . The position of Milton Eisenhower , John Cabot Merwin Bohan , is that the synthesis of public and private enterprise which enabled this country constantly to raise the living conditions of its people while defending itself in one hot war and the whole of the West in one cold war provides the best instrument for blocking further totalitarian expansion anywhere in the world . They see no point in chanting the virtues of private enterprise to people whose colonial past requires that they be convinced , by results , that private enterprise can help them solve their particular problems , not hinder them . The three men are not alone in this view . Most experts on the needs of underdeveloped countries agree with them , as does , for example , Wall Street banker Eugene Black , President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( World Bank ) . But Humphrey will not see it so . And Humphrey ruled at Rio . Humphrey 's purpose differs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or for that matter from that of Latin American spokesmen . Everybody agrees that present conditions in Latin America are hand-tailored to Communist tastes , that the United States in its own self-interest must do something , a great deal , about it , and that there has been just enough criminal irresponsibility in the pastbehavior of United States corporations working in the area ( and enough United States Government intervention to protect these corporations from their just deserts ) to make our motives suspect for a long time and our job more difficult . But viewed against the utter disagreement as to methods , this sharing of goals is perhaps . the most frightening aspect of the split in Administration thinking revealed by Rio : it has not influenced Humphrey to change his mind one bit , and it has shown the total power granted him to make policy in this matter . To achieve the common goal , Latin American nations ask that the flow of capital into their area be boosted to the neighborhood of $1 billion a year and , since most of them depend entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to earn the foreign currency they must have to buy food and machinery , that some scheme be worked out to prevent the price of those exports from rising and falling like a crow gone mad . It is perfectly true , as Humphrey says so often , that the Latin American countries must themselves take on by far the biggest part of the job of raising capital and stabilizing their economies . And it does no harm to remind them from time to time , and convince them , that we are not going to do their work for them . But since we buy more and sell more to Latin America than to any other continent , flow of capital and stability of prices depend largely upon our actions . Without our help , and a lot of it , Latin America could mount herculean efforts only to see them negated by the number of new mouths which each day demand more food , and by inflation . Private investment from the United States can be the largest single , long-range source of capital for Latin America . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To get more they will have to overcome the distrust , and relax the resulting measures , which past excesses of US Companies like United Fruit have caused ; and the US can help by making it plain that our government will not condone such practices in the future . Specifically , we have been asked to provide tax incentives to stimulate private investment . Humphrey has agreed to suggest a " study " of the matter . The traditional movement of American private capital , however , has been from a US firm into the development of raw materials it needs for its plants back home , or into bananas and coffee ? a kind of investment which , although important to Latin America , does not help these nations to diversify their economy and break away from a colonial-like dependence upon the sale of one or two products abroad to buy the food and manufactured goods . And for some years now , the flow of profits from Latin America to the US has exceeded the amount of new American capital going in . Everybody in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need but can not pay for all at once . No nation in the process of industrializing can pay for all the required equipment , fuel , experts , etc. , out of its current earnings abroad . It must buy on credit , repaying the loans with the extra income industrialization brings . At present Latin American enterprises can get credit from the Export-Import Bank , but only for the purchase of American goods transported in American ships , and from the World Bank , but only if the government of the country will guarantee the loan ? how many US enterprises would our government have guaranteed ? The fact that these two sources of credit are not sufHumphd on the very of the Rio conference eve rey ? an ficient finally got through to Carrying came the dramatic announcement that he had reversed his opposition to a long time dormant proposal for an International Finance Corporation which would arrange credits without requiring government guarantees . A step forward , but a very small one : the proposal is scheduled to be put before Congress in 1956 ; the Corporation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is revealing of Humphrey 's fixation that whenever the question of more credit was raised at Rio he insisted that these three sources were more than sufficient , esPe- cially since the amount available to the Export-Import Bank had lately , been boosted . But all three sources are rigidly limited as to the risks.they can take . Each is a ENOUGH is known about the military importance of the Panama Canal and its approaches . Far less is known about the crucial importance of Latin American resources to US military ? and non-military ? production : of the 12 materials listed as strategic in World War II , 11 are available in quantity in Latin America : copper , manganese , chromium , tungsten , tin , antimony , bauxite , etc . And Latin America contains enormous quantities of oil , iron ore , rubber and wood . Every day , as we decimate our own resources , our neighbors to the South become more essential to our security and well being . Yet reports from traders , backed up by the statistical studies of the United Nations Economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase of capital investment and of economic development in Latin America , fairly satisfactory in the first postwar years , has begun to fall off alarmingly , as has the level of Latin American trade with the United States and Canada . Industrial output , which averaged a 7.7 percent annual increase from 1945 to 1951 , dropped to its lowest postwar rate in 1953 ? only 1.3 percent . Gross capital investment , including both new and replacement capital , dropped from a rate of 18 percent to about 14.3 percent . The annual rate of increase ' in per capita gross product has fallen from 3.2 percent to a tiny 0.7 percent . The relationship of these figures to ability to purchase abroad is obvious . Ordinary US exports to Latin America ran to more than $3.6 billion in 1951 . Only a shade lower in 1952 , they dropped in 1953 to $2.9 billion , minus 20 percent , One of the greatest problems for the underdeveloped countries in this hemisphere , and throughout the world , is the fact that their economic life , based upon one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is at the absolute mercy of fluctuations in world market prices . Eleven of the 20 Latin-American countries depend on one commodity for 55 percent or more of their exports ( and five of those for over 75 peicent ) . For six others , just two commodities make up over half their total exports . Of the remaining three , Peru is only slightly more diversified , with cotton and sugar making up 48 percent . This leaves only Mexico and Argentina , where four and five products share the major part of the market . It is easy to understand the , need for such price and market stabilization measures as long-term purchase agreements , which would make it possible for some of these countries to find the income stability they need to participate in long-range financial planning . business proposition designed to deal in self-liquidating projects . And no country can possibly come into the industrial 20th Century until , for example , long and expensive sanitation and health campaigns free its people from the diseases that ruin their ability to produce , until enough of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be given technical training , until decent housing and decent medical care give them an incentive to do more than , is necessary just to remain alive . And what of the highways and railroads , the bridges which would open immense areas now inaccessible to farming and industry , but themselves produce no profit ? Some , but very few , such projects are undertaken by the bigger corporations , and then slowly . Some can be , and are being , financed by local governments . But the scale and the pace required demands credit : government loans at interest rates way below what banks can afford , or no interest at all . And grants , as few as possible and carefully given , but given without pretense . Since the war , the United States has given , outright , to wealthy Belgium and tiny Luxembourg three times more than to all 20 Latin , American nations . At Rio , Humphrey pushed his insistence that existing credit sources were sufficient even to the , point of opposing a " help yourself " Chilean proposal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressional advisers to the delegation ? Sens . Wiley ( R , Wis . ) , Capehart ( R , Ind. ) and Smathers ( D , Fla. ) ? and a Republican observer , Rep. James G. Fulton of Pennsylvania , succeeded in softening this opposition . Toward the end of the conference , Representative Fulton called a few newsmen together and said " Humphrey came down here with an empty briefcase . The American delegation was told to keep its mouth shut and get it over with as fast as possible . " He'objected ; he did not need an altruistic reason : there are 375,000 unemployed in his district , " 4ndustrialization would make these countries the customers we need . " At Rio , our foreign economic pOlicy in action could be compared to the generalizations pouring out of Washington . For that reason , government observers from all over the world , and especially from Asia , came to the conference . Humphrey 's empty briefcase was what they saw ? at the very moment when the White Hotiie , the . State Department and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Cold War strategy would see a shift of emphasis from military to a long-range economic security policy , particularly in Asia . " The East and West are approaching a military standoff . There are a billion people ? and more each day ? living in the underdeveloped regions of the world . They are not going to live their present kind of life forever . Some are choosing a way out now ; others will soon . Our job is to convince them that our way is the best . So the shift in emphasis from a military to an economic buildup is sound . But again there is the frightening possibility that agreement on goals masks a deep division on methods . If Humphrey 's line at Rio indicates , as it did to most observers there , that this Administration thinks it can win the enthusiasm of ' a billion people on the march by offering them only one part of the fused private-andpublic enterprise approach which has made this nation , and by pinching pennies instead of facing up to our duties as the world 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in for some disheartening defeats . 