@@491250

The Heritability of Intelligence ARTHUR R. JENSEN The question of why people differ in intelligence has been asked for centuries , but a scientifically acceptable answer did not become wholly possible until psychologists devised techniques for measuring intelligence quantitatively and objectively . The first really useful intelligence test was devised in 1905 by the French psychologist Alfred Binet . Binet 's early test was later revised and improved by Lewis Terman at Stanford University ; the now-famous test that resulted from these efforts is known as the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale . It is still the most widely used test of general intelligence . There are other intelligence tests , and although many of them appear to be quite different from one another , all actually measure much the same general ability . That is to say , if we administer several seemingly quite different intelligence tests to a large number of persons , their scores on all the tests will be in pretty much the same rank order . Those who score high on one test will tend to score high on the others , and those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the others . This fact of correlation among all tests of intelligence led Charles Spearman , the famous English psychologist , to conclude that there is a general factor , " g , " which is common to all tests of intelligence . We know that it is practically impossible to make up a mental test having any degree of complexity which does not involve " g . " We can perhaps most clearly characterize " g " as an ability for abstract reasoning and problem solving , for seeing relationships , and for grasping concepts . A person 's score on an intelligence test is usually expressed as an I.Q. ( for Intelligence Quotient ) . The test is standardized in the general population in such a way that the average 1 . Q. at any age is set at 100 , and the middle 50 percent of the population falls within the so-called average rangeof I.Q. 's going from 90 to 110 . Significance of the I.Q. Can the I.Q. tell us anything of practical importance ? Is it related to our commonsense notions about mental ability as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupational performance ? Yes , indeed , and there is no doubt about it . The massive evidence from psychological , educational and industrial research , and research in the armed forces , is unequivocal . We know , for example , that no other single fact that we are now able to ascertain about a child gives us a better prediction of his future scholastic performance than his 1 . Q. obtained after age 5 or 6 . ( Below this age I.Q. tests become less accurate indicators of the child 's later mental development , and below 2 or 3 years of age test scores have practically no predictive value . ) The I.Q. obtained after 9 or 10 years of age also predicts final adult occupational status to almost as high a degree as it predicts scholastic performance . When various occupations are ranked for average income and for the general public 's average judgment of the occupation 's prestige and desirability , this rank order is found to be highly related to the average I.Q. level of the persons in these occupations . There is of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the average I.Q. of persons within a particular occupation is closely related to that occupation 's standing in terms of its average income and the amount of prestige accorded to it by the general public . One of the most convincing demonstrations that I.Q , is related to " real life " indicators of ability was provided in a classic study by Terman and his associates at Stanford University . In the 1920 's they selected a total of 1,528 children with Stanford-Binet I.Q. 's above 140 . The average I.Q. of the group was 152 . These children were investigated periodically over the years up into their adulthood . ( Most of them are now in their fifties . ) Terman found that for the most part these highI.Q. children in later adulthood markedly excelled the general population on every indicator of achievement that was examined : a higher level of education completed ; more scholastic honors and awards ; higher occupational status ; higher income ; production of more articles , books , patents , and other signs of creativity ; more entries in Who 's Who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tat health ; and a lower divorce rate . Also , they have much brighter children than the average ; their average I.Q. is 133 , a level which is exceeded by only 2 percent of all the children in the general population . Findings such as these establish beyond a doubt that 1 . Q. tests measure characteristics that are obviously of considerable importance in our present technological society . To say that the kind of ability measured by intelligence tests is irrelevant or unimportant would be tantamount to repudiating civilization as we know it . The Causes of I . Q. Differences The layman usually asks : " Is intelligence due to heredity or environment ? " The scientist promptly answers : " Both . " Without heredity and environment there simply is no intelligence . Obviously every person must have had a biological inheritance of genes from his parents and must have grown in an environment , or he would n't even be here to take an I.Q. test . So , of course , both heredity and environment are essential for the existence of the individual or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists actually study this problem , we find that they do not even ask the layman 's question . The question to which scientists have sought an answer can be stated as follows : How much of the variation among persons in a given population is attributable to differences in their environments and how much to differences in their genetic endowments ? Numerous studies conducted by psychologists and geneticists over the last 40 or 50 years provide Psychology has one great practical success to its credit in the twentieth century  --  namely the intelligence testing movement . Many tests have been devised which predict success in school with remarkable regularity . Literally tens of thousands of validity coefficients have been calculated , demonstrating that those who score higher on aptitude or intelligence tests usually do better in their school work . Selecting , at random , a finding which is quite typical for the United States , I recently observed in a longitudinal study to be reported by Costa ( 1972 ) that Kuhlman-Anderson 1 . Q. scores obtained in the sixth grade correlated 0.59 with twelfth-grade rank in class . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligence test when he is eleven or twelve years old enables you to predict fairly accurately how well he will be doing in school some six or seven years later . Rank in class at graduation from secondary school in turn predicts whether he can go on to the university and how good a university he will get into . As a conDavid C. McClelland is Professor of Psychology , Harvard University . Appointed to Harvard in 1956 , he has also served as chairman of the Fulbright Advisory Panel on Psychology and as director of research projects for the Ford Foundation , the Carnegie Foundation , the State Department , the National Institute of Mental Health and the Peace Corps . Professor McClelland is author of many books , including Personality ; The Achieving Society ; The Roots of Consciousness ; Motivating Economic Achievement , and Alcohol and Human Motivation . sequence , knowing a person 's intelligence-test score or scholastic-aptitude-test score has become a matter of great importance in the United States , not only to admissions officers who use it to pick people for college but also to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is " bright enough " to be a policeman , a social worker or a fireman . Testing has therefore become big business . The Educational Testing Service which gives the Scholastic Aptitude Test used by most of the better-known colleges and universities in the United States employs around two thousand people and has a large plant spread over hundreds of acres in Princeton , New Jersey . Thousands of young people pay to take its tests annually to see if they are qualified to get into the college of their choice . The testing technology has been so sold to the American public that only in a few of the more " backward " parts of the society is it not used in the schools or businesses or civil service . And of course it is spreading fast to the rest of the world , which is beginning to discover the utility of tests for picking those who will do well in school . To be sure , the testers themselves loudly insist that there are other important human qualities besides the ability to take scholastic aptitude tests , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , admissions officers may believe they take these other qualities into account but in fact their selection decisions can be almost perfectly predicted by aptitude-test scores alone . The desire to select more " intelligent " people for schooling or for almost any occupation proves overpowering . It quickly reduces other qualifications to insignificance . While the intelligence-testing movement in the United States has been moving on from one triumph to the next , some questions have been raised about its theoretical underpinnings , both by scholars and by policy makers who wonder if its growing power over people 's lives is justified . One difficulty with tests has long been known but little commented on perhaps because its seriousness has not been fully appreciated . It is very simply that if academic achievement tests are taken seriously as measures of real competence , then the quality of education does not seem to contribute to improving competence . Back in the 1930 's in the United By and large no effects of the supposedly higher-quality education could be discovered in the test scores . The educators felt they were doing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were . The same finding has turned up again and again since that time . Certain colleges in the United States are widely acknowledged to be better than other colleges  --  in the sense that they have better faculties , more books in the library , higher endowments , better laboratory facilities , and so forth . Yet repeated studies as summarized by Jacob ( 1957 ) have failed to show any test-score differences attributable to the better education supposedly obtained in the elite colleges . If the graduates of those colleges perform better on achievement tests , it is because they scored higher on them at entrance to college , not because they received a better education subsequently . alike in I.Q. than are fraternal twins reared together . Fraternal twins are merely siblings who happen to be conceived and born at the same time , and therefore half of them are of the opposite sex . In I.Q. and other traits they resemble one another no more than do ordinary siblings born at different times . Identical twins reared apart differ , on the average , by only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test the very same person on two occasions a week apart , we find that his test score will vary , on the average , by 2 or 3 I.Q. points . This is the test 's " measurement error . " When we eliminate this error from the twin data , we find that the twins differ only 4 or 5 points in I.Q. Identical twins reared together differ by only 2 or 3 points , not including measurement error . The largest I.Q , difference ever found in a pair of identical twins reared apart is 24 points . More than 17 percent of siblings reared together differ by more than 24 I.Q. points . The same is true of fraternal twins . But siblings ( and fraternal twins ) have only half of their genes in common , and they differ on the average by 12 I.Q. points ( excluding measurement error ) , even when reared together . The studies of identical twins show clearly that individuals who are genetically identical are almost as much alike in mental ability as they are alike in physical traits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in different environments . Unrelated Children Reared Together The opposite situation to identical twins reared apart is that of genetically unrelated children adopted at birth by foster parents and reared together . Such children differ from one another , on the average , by 15 to 16 I.Q. points ( excluding measurement error ) . Compare this with the 17 to 18 I.Q. points difference between unrelated children reared in different homes , or the 15 to 16 points difference becontinued from page 12 tween unrelated children brought up in different homes but in the same socioeconomic class . We see that unrelated children brought up together in the same home differ from one another in I.Q. at least 3 or 4 times more than genetically identical twins reared in different homes . And the unrelated children reared together differ almost as much in 1 . Q. as unrelated children simply picked at random from different homes . The I.Q. 's of adopted children also show little or no relationship to the I.Q. 's of their adopting parents , but they are almost as closely related to the I.Q. 's of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children who are reared by their natural parents . Children reared in the common environment of an orphanage differ from one another in I.Q. to approximately the same degree as children picked at random from the total population . The I.Q. 's of orphanage children who have never known their own parents show almost the same degree of correlation with their parents ' level of ability as we find in the case of children reared by their own parents . Resemblance Between Parents and Children Now and then we notice that very bright parents can have an intellectually mediocre child , or that rather dull parents can have an exceptionally bright child . These observations are often pointed to mistakenly as evidence that intelligence is not inherited . But the fact is that genetic theory predicts precisely that we should find such discrepancies between parents and their offspring . For example , parent-offspring differences in height are of about the same relative magnitude as their differences in I.Q. Children resemble their parents physically and in mental ability to about the same degree that they resemble their own siblings . The average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) child is the same as the differencebetween siblings  --  that is , about 12 I.Q. points . The difference between a child and the average of both of his parents* I . Q. 's is about 10 points . A parent with a high LQ , will usually , but by no means always , have children whose I.Q. 's are somewhat lower than his own but are still above the average for the general population . A parent with a low I.Q. , on the other hand , will usually , but not always , have children whose I.Q. 's are somewhat higher than his own but are still below the average of the population . This phenomenon , discovered by Sir Francis Galton , is called " regression toward the mean , " and it holds true for height and other inherited physical traits as well as for 1 . Q. I.Q. 's of Husbands and Wives It is interesting that in our society husbands and wives are at least as much alike in I.Q. as brothers and sisters , If men and women picked their mates strictly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differ by an average of 18 I.Q. points . But in fact men and women choose one another partly for intelligence , and so spouses differ by only 10 or 11 points in I.Q. The Effect of Inbreeding on I.Q. Every person harbors a number of mutant , recessive genes . Most of these are defective genes . They are passed on from parent to child , but they usually will not produce any harmful effects to the child unless the other parent also contributes exactly the same defective gene . The reason this usually does not occur is that each parent 's normal genes are dominant over the other parent 's defective , recessive genes . When mating occurs between a man and a woman who are blood relations , however , the chances are much greater that they will both possess many of the same defective genes . When these defective genes are paired together in the related couple 's children , they subtract unfavorably from the traits that are controlled by these genes under normal conditions . This depression due to inbreeding is known to occur in inherited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing has been found for 1 . Q. It is well established , for example , that cousin marriages produce children who , on the average , have I.Q. 's several points lower than the I.Q. 's of children whose parents are unrelated but are matched with the married cousins on 1 . Q. , age , educational level , and socioeconomic status . More extreme are the cases of children who have resulted from incestuous relationships , such as father-daughter and brother-sister matings . These children show a much higher incidence of severe mental retardation than children born to the same parents when they have mated with unrelated persons . These interesting findings are entirely predictable from basic principles of genetics that apply to all living beings . Moreover , it is virtually impossible to explain such facts without concluding that I.Q. differences are very strongly influenced by genetic mechanisms . The Relative Effects of Heredity and Environment How can we summarize briefly what is now known about the relative importance of heredity and environment in causing individual differences in I.Q. ? In the terminology of genetics a summary answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is close to 0.80 . This means that 80 percent of the " variance " in I.Q. 's in the general population is attributable to genetic differences and 20 percent is attributable to non-genetic or environmental differences . " Variance " is essentially a quantitative index of the total amount of differences that exist among all members of some population . So instead of talking about variance , we can more easily describe our conclusions in terms of average differences . If we should determine the differences in I.Q. between every person in the population and every other person , the average of all these differences would turn out to be 18 I.Q. points . These differences are due both to genetic and to environmental factors . Now we can ask theoretically : What would be the average I.Q. difference among all persons in the population if everyone had grown up in identical environments from the moment of conception , while genetic differences remained as they are ? Under this hypothetical condition of completely equal environments for everyone , the average 1 . Q. difference would be 16 points . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the average difference that now exists . Let us now ask the reverse : What would be the average difference if everyone had exactly the same genetic endowment , but environmental differences remained unchanged ? Under this hypothetical condition of complete genetic equality the average I.Q. difference among persons would be only 8 points , or just half the difference that would exist with equal environments . So the conclusion we come to  --  which is certainly valid at least in the white European and North American populations in which the research was conducted  --  is this : In accounting for the causes of the differences among persons in I.Q. , the genes outweigh the effects of environment by 2 to I. As environmental conditions are improved and made more alike for all persons in the society , the average intelligence level of the population will be somewhat increased , and the I.Q. differences among persons will be slightly reduced . But of course the differences that remain will in-evitably be due even more to genetic factors . * Scholastic Achievement and Intelligence Statement of Arthur R. Jensen to the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Committee , my name is Arthur R. Jensen . I am Professor of Educational Psychology at the University of California at Berkeley , where I have been a member of the faculty for the past 14 years . First , I want to thank this Committee for inviting me to summarize my position on the topics mentioned in your invitation : " heredity , environment , intelligence , and scholastic achievement . " My position on some aspects of these questions , as you know , is a controversial and unpopular one , but it is a position which I have come to through my intensive studies over the past decade of virtually all the relevant evidence in this field and through my own experimental and statistical investigations . The reporting of these conclusions in scholarly journals , as in my well-known article in the Winter 1969 issue of the Harvard Educational Review , has not been without some penalty . At least I have heard of no one taking the contrary position who as a result has had to endure personal threats , prolonged harassment , invasion of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ university administration take such precautions as putting two plainclothes police bodyguards on him  --  in lectures , on the campus , in going to and from classes and to the parking lot . Much of this emotional reaction to my Harvard Educational Review article , I believe , is a result of the fact that a generation of social scientists and educators has been assiduously indoctrinated to believe that genetic factors are of little or no importance in human behavior and human differences . My summaries of the relevant evidence contradict the belief . The reactions have often been extreme . In a recent Newsletter of the American Anthropological Association , for example , it was proposed , apparently in all seriousness , that members of the AAA should burn  --  literally burn  --  all copies of the Harvard Educational Review containing my article ! I am therefore grateful for this opportunity to make clear my position on these important matters to the Committee , and also to see that a number of distinguished scientists are concerned with some of the issues I have raised and are here today to express @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinions to coincide completely with mine  --  indeed , they were selected expressly to insure that a variety of views might be expressed before this Committee  --  I am especially gratified to see that there are prominent scientists who , like myself , are trying to come to grips with these difficult questions now under discussion . Scholastic Achievement and Intelligence Scholastic achievement is what children learn in school  --  repertoire of knowledge and skills , including the 3 R 's . Scholastic achievement can be most reliably measured by means of standardized tests at every stage of schooling from kindergarten to college . When entire school populations are tested on scholastic achievement , there is revealed a wide range of individual and group differences at any given grade level . In one fifth-grade classroom in San Francisco , for example , achievement levels ranged from first to eleventh grade . What most educators , government officials , and writers in the popular press who talk about the present problems of education are in fact referring to is not primarily dissatisfaction with some absolute level of achievement , but rather with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so conspicuously in our educational system  --  the achievement gaps between the affluent and the poor , thelower class and the middle class , the majority and the minority , the urban and the suburban , and so on . Educational differences , not absolute level of performance , are the main cause of concern . Whether we like to admit it or not , the problem of achievement differences today is where the action is , where the billions of dollars of educational funds are being poured in , where the heat is on , and where the schools are being torn apart . We are trying to understand more about the causes of these differences . Massive surveys and statistical analyses such as James Coleman 's well-known report on Equality of Educational Opportunity ( 1966 ) have shown that only a small fraction ( about one-tenth to one-fifth ) of the total variation in scholastic achievement is attributable to factors in the schools themselves . In other words , differences among schools and school systems nationwide are not sufficiently large to account for more than a small fraction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The single most powerful predictor of children 's scholastic performance is intelligence as measured by any one of a variety of standard intelligence tests : group or individual tests , verbal or nonverbal . No other variable has yet been found which makes as large an independent contribution to variance in scholastic achievement as does intelligence . I have found in my own research that a composite of several different measures of intelligence will predict nearly all the true variance in scholastic achievement scores , and the predictive validity of the intelligence tests becomes better with advancing grade level . Furthermore , the validity of intelligence tests for predicting scholastic achievement is not significantly different for white and black children . In this respect , intelligence tests are quite color blind . That is to say , a white child and a black child with the same I.Q. can be expected to perform about equally well in school . In short , if intelligence tests can be said to be good for anything , they are good for predicting scholastic achievement . Intelligence , in the technical sense that psychologists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholastic achievement . Schools do not teach intelligence per se . Intelligence is mental brightness ; it is a capacity for conceptualization , abstract reasoning and problem solving , for processing information in the form of words and symbols , for integrating and understanding what is learned , and for making broad transfer from past learning to the solution of novel problems . As Harvard psychologist Professor Lawrence Kohlberg recently noted , scholastic achievement merely rides on the back of intelligence : " . bright kids learn the stuff they 're taught in school faster , but learning the stuff they 're taught in school does n't make them brighter " ( Education Summary , August 6 , 1971 ) . Intelligence can be quite reliably measured by appropriate tests , and these measurements , often called I.Q. 's , show substantial correlations with a number of educationally , occupationally , and socially important criteria . The correlations total variance which is genetically determined , is a population statistic subject to sampling error and other sources of variation , it has no universal or constant value for all times , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are usually of the order of .70 to .80 . ) I believe it is safe to say that in European and North American Caucasian populations at the present time , genetic or hereditary factors are roughly twice as important as environmental variation as a cause of individual differences in intelligence as assessed by standard tests . Educational Implications At present , neither I nor anyone else , I 'm afraid , has any more than rather general notions concerning the educational implications of the wide range of apparent differences in educability in our population . There is fundamentally , in my opinion , no difference , psychologically and genetically , between individual differences and group differences . Individual differences often simply get tabulated so as to show up as group differences  --  between schools in different neighborhoods , between different racial groups , between cities and regions . They then become a political and ideological , not just a psychological , matter . To reduce the social tensions that arise therefrom , we see proposals to abolish aptitude and achievement testing , grading , grade placement , special classes for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the classroom as the instructional unit , the academic curriculum , and even our whole system of education . There may be merit in some of these proposals . But I think they are too often aimed at covering up problems rather than coming to grips with them . Greater Attention to Learning Readiness . The concept of developmental readiness for various kinds of school learning has been too neglected in recent educational trends , which have been dominated by the unproved notion that the earlier something can be taught to a child , the better . Forced early learning , prior to some satisfactory level of readiness ( which will differ markedly from one child to another ) , could cause learning blocks which later on practically defy remediation . The more or less uniform lockstep sequencing of educational experiences may have to be drastically modified for the benefit of many children , but the recent massive insistence on " earliness " and equality of educational treatment of all children has militated against large-scale research on the implications of readiness for children with below-average educability within the traditional school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools , which aim to serve the entire population , must move beyond narrow conceptions of scholastic achievement to find a greater diversity of ways for children over the entire range of abilities to benefit from their schooling  --  to benefit especially in ways that will be to their advantage when they are out of school . The academic goals of schooling are so ingrained in our thinking and our values that it will probably call for radical efforts to modify public education in ways such that it will maximally benefit large numbers of children with very limited aptitude for academic achievement . I believe that a well-intentioned but misconceived social egalitarian ideology has prevented public education in the United States from facing up to this challenge . The belief that equality of educational opportunity should necessarily lead to equality of performance , I believe , is proving to be a false hope . It is the responsibility of scientific research in genetics , psychology , and education to determine the basis for realistic solutions to the problems of universal public education . Though it may be premature to prescribe at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the form not so much of attempting to minimize differences in scholastic aptitudes and motivation , but of creating a greater diversity of curricula , instructional methods , and educational goals and values that will make it possible for children ranging over a wider spectrum of abilities and proclivities genuinely to benefit from their years in school . The current Zeitgeist of environmentalist equalitarianism has all but completely stifled our thinking along these lines . And I believe the magnitude and urgency of the problem are such as to call for quite radical thinking if the educational system is truly to serve the whole of society . We have invested so much for so long in trying to equalize scholastic performance that we have given little or no thought to finding ways of diversifying schools to make them rewarding to everyone while not attempting to equalize everyone 's performance in a common curriculum . Recommendations have almost always taken the form of asking what next we might try to make children who in the present school system do not flourish academically become more like those who do . The emphasis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system . A philosophy of equalization , however laudable its ideals , can not work if it is based on false premises , and no amount of propaganda can make it appear to work . Its failures will be forced upon everyone . Educational pluralism of some sort , encompassing a variety of very different educational curricula and goals , I think , will be the inevitable outcome of the growing realization that the schools are not going to eliminate human differences . Rather than making over a large segment of the school population so they will not he doomed to failure in a largely antiquated , elitist-oriented , educational system which originally evolved to serve only a relatively small segment of society , the educational system will have to be revamped in order to benefit everyone who is required by the society to attend school . It seems incredible that a system can still survive which virtually guarantees frustration and failure for a large proportion of the children it should intend to serve . But we should not fail to recognize that to propose radical diversity in accord with individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of educational treatment , puts society between Scylla and Charybdis in terms of insuring for all individuals equality of opportunity for the diversity of educational paths . The surest way to maximize the benefits of schooling to all individuals and at the same time to make the most of a society 's human resources is to insure equality of educational opportunity for all its members . Monolithic educational goals and uniformity of approaches guarantee unnecessary frustration and defeat for many . On the other hand , educational pluralism runs the risk that social , economic , ethnic background or geographic origin , rather than each child 's own characteristics , might determine the educational paths available to him . The individual characteristics appropriate for any one of a variety of educational paths and goals are to be found everywhere , in every social stratum , ethnic group , and neighborhood . Academic aptitudes and special talents should be cultivated wherever they are found , and a wise society will take all possible measures to insure this to the greatest possible extent . At the same time , those who are poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wayside . Suitable means and goals must be found for making their years of schooling rewarding to them , if not in the usual academic sense , then in ways that can better their chances for socially useful and self-fulfilling roles as adults . 1 California Institute of Technology Engineering and Science magazine , Pasadena , California , April , 1970 . McCDELLAND continued from page 14 too far from familiar territory . Yet if he says he would go home he is judged by the testers to be less intelligent . It is also easy to see from these examples why there is a correlation between test performance and later performance in school because the teacher , as a representative of standard middle-class culture , will expect the same language and types of behavior as the person who made up the so-called intelligence test . The teacher will either not understand the dialect that is used in class or will give the child a lower mark for using " bad " language and the ghetto child will before long go through life stigmatized as being less intelligent and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychologists to consider seriously another possible explanation for many of the existing correlations between intelligence test scores , doing well in school , and holding down higher-statusjobs later in life . Those who control not only economic and social opportunities but also what language and values are the standards by which others will he judged , may in fact be able to use test scores to maintain their power . All one needs to assume is that more powerful families are in a much better position to help their children get higher-status jobs : they know the right people ; they can send their children to the right schools ; they can use their influence to get them jobs directly . So it turns out that people in higher-status jobs score higher on so-called intelligence tests . But where is the direct evidence that the higher score on the test in fact indicated that the person was better able to do the higher-status job ? As every psychologist knows , correlation does not mean causation . It does n't follow that because professionals score higher than laborers on certain tests that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enabled them to be professionals rather than laborers . The reason why people have assumed that causation was involved is that the test scores were supposed to indicate how intelligent the person was , and it seems reasonable to assume that being a professional requires more of something called intelligence than being a laborer does . However it is by no means as self-evident as it once was that these test scores measure the kind of intelligence implied by the logic of this 