@@376750

The small , anxious-looking man who stood before a judge last week in London 's Central Criminal Court hardly resembled the feral terrorist British police are linking him to . But Saajid Badat , 24 , faces charges of having conspired with fellow Briton and convicted shoe bomber Richard Reid , who tried to blow up an American Airlines flight from Paris to Miami in December 2001 . And Badat is just one of 21 people detained by British police in the past three weeks under antiterrorism laws ( some suspects have since been released ) . <P> All across Europe , in fact , it is a busy time in the war on terrorism . German police two weeks ago announced the arrest of an Iraqi , 29 , identified only as Mohammed L. He is suspected of having dispatched a dozen radicals from Germany to Iraq to carry out suicide attacks against U.S. troops . More than 5,000 police officers raided locations tied to 1,200 supporters of Germany-based Turkish militant Metin Kaplan . His Caliphate State group , which seeks to replace Turkey 's secular government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plots there . Five people were arrested on weapons , drug and illegal-immigration charges . Meanwhile , Syria has handed over 22 suspects sought by Turkey in connection with the November Istanbul blasts . And French police rounded up four people accused of assisting an al-Qaeda operative last year as he passed through France on his way to London . Are police methodically rolling up terrorist networks  --  or frantically trying to stave off a suspected holiday attack ? <P> Perhaps a little of both . " There are very big , very important police operations under way in Britain , " notes a senior French antiterrorist official . " Concern is high that attack plots may be advancing swiftly . I 've never seen the British quite this alarmed . " British authorities are tight-lipped about their concerns , but the nation has been on its second highest terrorism alert for about a month now . " Given the number of operations by British police , " says French terrorism expert Roland Jacquard , " they 're apparently going after more than one plot and group . " Three weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four separate plots " to actually cause mayhem and take life in this city . " <P> Security sources say the most significant arrest so far is that of Badat . He is charged with " unlawfully and maliciously " conspiring with Reid " and others unknown to cause ... an explosion of a nature likely to endanger life or cause serious injury to property in the United Kingdom or elsewhere . " A handprint and hair found in Reid 's shoe-bomb explosives did not belong to Reid , suggesting the bombs were prepared for him by an accomplice shortly before his failed attack . According to two U.S. law-enforcement officials , British investigators have made a forensic link between Badat and Reid . At the time of his arrest , Badat  --  whom neighbors described as a quiet student working to become an Islamic cleric  --  was in possession of a small quantity of explosives .                     