@@475050

WHILE Americans are absorbed by exciting communiqu6 from the theaters of war there is being enacted in the Hawaiian Islands and in our own Western States a thrilling and significant drama . Before the bar of public opinion stand a quarter of a million American citizens ? citizens with yellow skin , dark almond eyes , and a loyalty that has been finally and publicly challenged . These descendants of Japan anxiously await the verdict of their fellow-Americans . Before Pearl Harbor , when the Hawaiian Islands were known to the average American as the loveliest holiday spot on earth , they were a huge and quietly efficient melting pot for nearly half a million people . Blue-blood Island wives consulted Korean dentists , Japanese physicians ; gossiped or shopped with Chinese druggists , argued with Hawaiian police , had their market baskets filled by smiling Portuguese , Filipinos , or Puerto Ricans . The kimono , the hula skirt , and the latest fashion were all commonplace . Rubbing shoulders in the schoolrooms in an atmosphere of perfect equality , the children of a dozen races studied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the loyalty of the Japanese-descended Americans was frequently discussed , but it was one of those topics of conversation that get nowhere , beginning in idle speculation , ending in argument . All handswould join the debate . The boy from San Francisco , the Hawaiian plantation manager , the old China hand , each felt qualified to give an opinion . In the end they would solemnly agree upon one point ; that the loyalty of the Japanese born in this country ( called Nisi-0 was a mysterious , elusive , unfathomable quality , destined to remain forever in the realm of conjecture . This was the state of public opinion up to December 7 , 1941 . Then war , with all its attendant horrors , exploded full in the face of the peaceful Islanders . What had once been idle speculation now became a matter of gravest concern . Among the smoking ruins of Hawaii and along the alarmed West Coast of the mainland military authorities faced the need of immediate decision . While feeling was running high there was little time for cool consideration . Bloody race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pearl Harbor still flickered on the horizon , the Army and Navy Intelligence Services and the FBI went into action . They scooped up in their net a score of known enemy agents , more than a hundred alien officials of the oversize Japanese consulate , and two hundred more deemed potentially dangerous . Martial law was declared , a strict curfew established , total blackout enforced . In Honolulu each setting sun found a few tardy automobiles and breathless pedestrians scurrying for cover before darkness fell on deserted streets . Volunteer Police and the Hawaii Territorial Guard had been hurriedly organized ; their nervous trigger fingers punctured the night with shots at moving shadows and reflected moonlight while the people sat in darkened rooms and waited for invasion . As the full extent of the catastrophe became known , and the conviction grew that Hawaii was helpless and invasion was imminent , people sharply recalled the fifth columns of conquered Europe ? and recalled also many previously forgotten details of the Sunday attack . Each story grew with retelling . Soon all sorts of wild rumors ran about . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been found McKinley High School rings . People muttered behind their hands that the little Jap tailor had been shot in the uniform of Hirohito 's navy , that the water supply had been poisoned , that a local truck driver had barred the road to Pearl Harbor but had been killed while trying to escape . The air became filled with such stories ; a full breath of truth was scarcely possible . Plantation overseers who for years had called their workmen friends suddenly recalled that they never had " trusted those damned Japs . " Many a nervous mother for the first time dressed and fed her own children , and locked up the carving knives before going to bed . Long-trusted servants , humiliated , gave their employers face-saving stories explaining why they must return to their homes . Young Japanese-Americans meanwhile gravely discussed the wisdom of wearing American flag buttons and of buying defense bonds . Would such acts , they wondered , be interpreted as an effort to deceive or as loyalty to the United States ? A hundred and sixty thousand Japanese-Americans wanted to know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE midst of this confusion the new military commander , Lieutenant Gen-eral Delos C. Emmons , arrived . He was promptly subjected to terrific pressure . Self-appointed advisers invited him to lunch , buttonholed him in the street , formed lines outside his office door . Some were for caution : many demanded a mammoth concentration camp for all with Japanese blood in their veins ; a few hinted darkly of the need for more extreme measures . With their radios blaring reports from Manila , thousands of Filipino plantation workers had ideas of their own and quietly whetted their machetes . But General Emmons refused to be stampeded . Additional emergency measures were placed in effect . Alien homes were searched , certain strategic areas were evacuated , others were placed under guard . Reassurances were given the Japanese population that they had nothing to fear so long as they observed the laws . Two Japanese-language newspapers were allowed to resume publication under military supervision . This had a good effect upon the older Japanese , though it riled the more belligerent whites . Alarmed civilians began to take steps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , later to become euphemistically known as the " Morale Committee . " Before this group were haled Japanese-Americans reported by amateur sleuths as suspicious characters . The quaking " suspects " were told that they had to be " one hundred and fifty per cent Americans " and were advised to donate a pint of blood to wash away suspicion . The most serious problem of all was what to do about the armed and uniformed citizens of Japanese ancestry in the Army and in the Hawaii Territorial Guard . Long before the war , and until mid-1942 , men of all races had been inducted into the Army . The selectees from Japanese homes had been given banquets with patriotic speeches , congratulations , and farewell gifts before they marched away . Eventually they had come to number nearly 1,900 men , divided between the 297th and 298th Battalions . After training , they had been assigned to defense sectors where they served with distinction on December 7th and for months afterward . Their fine record availed little , however , against the rising tide of suspicion . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quantity . The new leaders took one look and decided not to face the sea with those troops behind them . They felt that certain rifles in the rear might wisely be exchanged for picks and shovels . This was done , and thereafter the Nisei obediently dug miles of trenches , piled up mountains of sandbag emplacements for guns in other hands . After a period of indecision , Selective Service reversed its former policy and classified all Japanese , whether citizens or not , as 4-C , thus closing the door to further inductions . Even less fortunate were the Japanese-Americans of the Hawaii Territorial Guard . Authorized on December 7th , by proclamation of Governor Poindexter , the Guard was formed largely of the ROTC units of the University of Hawaii and local high schools . The call to arms found hundreds of Nisei struggling into their ROTC uniforms and racing to the armory to be handed rifles and ammunition . With young men of many other races they guarded public utilities and important buildings , releasing an equal number of regular soldiers for combat duty . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the city , but all from a common sense of duty . For two months they served , exercising their constitutional right to bear arms in defense of their country . Then the storm struck , even more fiercely than it was later to strike their older brothers in the Army . Orders were given that all the members of the Hawaii Territorial Guard whose parents were Japanese should assemble in one place . The officer who looked down upon the rows of attentive faces spoke with noticeable difficulty . He informed them that they were no longer needed , that they were being " inactivated . " As they stacked their rifles and turned back their uniforms the faces of the outcasts showed few traces of the dishonor they felt . Later , however , when their chaplain bade them good-by , many of them could no longer suppress tears of humiliation . Yet all of them were more determined than ever to take part in active war service . A meeting was held at the University of Hawaii . A request was sent to the Military Governor asking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assist the armed forces . Their request was granted . Calling themselves the Varsity Victory Volunteers , nearly two hundred strong , they were again sworn in and sent to Schofield Barracks . Here they were assigned as laborers for the armed forces . Thus the VVV became the first organized labor battalion of its kind . Attached to the 37th Engineers , they made an enviable record . From his slender pay every man bought a war bond . Nearly half of them pledged themselves to buy a bond a month . Three-quarters of them contributed their blood to the blood bank . This was their answer to " inactivation . " Nevertheless the storm continued unabated . Many people felt that violent and radical measures were imperative . It was seriously suggested that all of the 160,000 with Japanese blood in their veins be returned to Japan , removed to some outlying Island , or concentrated on a mountaintop . Excited citizens wrote to people on the mainland , to Congressmen and newspaper editors . The gist of these letters was the same : " We know that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also know that the Japanese are a cunning and treacherous people . How do we know that they are not biding their time ? How do we know that all of their lives they have not been craftily waiting for a chance to strike a blow for the Emperor ? Is it sensible to take a chance ? " Some of these letters were signed , some anonymous , some marked " Vigilante . " The melting pot now boiled in earnest . In April , 1942 , the situation grew most serious . Everyone knew that a solution was urgently necessary . Few people knew that one was on the way . III HE solution was to come , not from the white leaders who had voiced the greatest apprehension , nor from the Islands ' political leaders , nor even from the military . It was to come from the Japanese-Americans themselves . In the heart of Honolulu was an organization called the Honolulu Civic Association . Largest and most influential of all Japanese-American societies in the Islands , it had long been devoted to the advancement of community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many a Nisei the stigma of Japanese citizenship imposed by parents in his infancy . It had taken part in all community projects , established a home for the aged , and maintained a scholarship at the University . Since the war began it had done gas-rationing for the local Japanese , provided volunteers to make gas masks for children , helped mightily in the rubber and scrap drives , and sold thousands of tickets for the Army and Navy Relief benefits . When American ships were lost at sea , or troops deprived of supplies , Association members had dug deep into their pockets , and at a cost of over $40,000 had provided more than 20,000 comfort kits ? with razor , soap , toothbrush , and stationery ? for American fighting men . Now the Executive Committee of this Association gathered round their council table ? a lawyer , a merchant , a salesman , an editor , other businessmen . They represented only a few professions but the leadership of thousands . Their faces were Oriental ; their ideas and language were pure American . Some had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legion . They went to work . Their problem was simply stated : " To find a way to convince the people of this country that we are loyal Americans in heart and mind , and thus remove forever the fear , distrust , and discrimination which prevents our being fully accepted as Americans . " They discussed at length what had taken place on the West Coast . When war struck and the people of California , Oregon , and Washington had been flooded with fear and hatred , Lieutenant General John L. DeWitt , of the Western Defense Command , had been forced to act promptly , and had made what from the military point of view was the only possible decision ? to remove from the coastal areas all those about whose loyalty there was any doubt . To the people of the Western States , and to the military as well , this had meant all with Japanese blood in their veins . So thousands of families had been uprooted from their homes and removed to ten great Relocation Centers scattered through the Western States . Remembering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Military Authorities of the United States Greetings : With full realization of the crisis which threatens the democracies of the world , and with the deep sense of responsibility common to all free men , we American citizens of Japanese ancestry sincerely and humbly present this petition . WHEREAS , there are , in the Territory of Hawaii , many thousands of American citizens of Japanese ancestry , who are daily doing their best to carry on as loyal Americans , and , WHEREAS , our education has been in all ways under the American system , and our associations and customs of living have followed the course of loyal Americans , and , WHEREAS , Hawaii is our homeland , and will be the homeland of our children , and , WHEREAS , we have participated in the advancement of community life , and exercised our American right of franchise for the promotion of a democratic government , and , WHEREAS , war now threatens all these sacred , inherent , American privileges , as well as our national welfare and freedom , and arouses and inspires us , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preservation , and , WHEREAS , American citizens of Japanese extraction have already been , and will continue to be , inducted into the armed services of the United States , and inasmuch as their continued presence in this vital outpost has caused a sense of insecurity among other Americans , which sense of insecurity should be removed , for the common good , and , WHEREAS , to deprive us of the sacred birthright to bear arms in defense of our country , is contrary to the principles upon which American democracy is founded , now , THEREFORE , we American citizens of Japanese ancestry ask and petition the military authorities of the United States , to grant us the opportunity to fight for our country , and to give our lives in its defense . Realizing that it may be thought inadvisable for us to serve in the Pacific theater of war , we , therefore , respectfully request the privilege not only of being inducted into the military forces of the United States , but also of forming combat units to fight on other fronts , where we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us . Please give us a chance . After the petition was drafted , they discussed how it might best be presented to the military authorities . As an intermediary they selected one of the most prominent men of the Hawaiian Islands , Walter Dillingham , President of the Oahu Railway Company and director of many other enterprises . Mr. Dillingham invited the highest military commanders of the Islands to a luncheon at his home . The group included Admiral Chester W. Nimitz , Commander in Chief , Pacific Fleet ; Lieutenant General Delos C. Emmons ; Rear Admiral Milo F. Draemel , Chief of Staff to the Commander in Chief ; Rear Admiral David W. Bagley , Commandant of the Fourteenth Naval District ; and Brigadier General Joseph L. Collins , Chief of Staff , Hawaiian Department . The petition was read to them . They listened , applauded , and approved . As Commander of the Hawaiian Department , General Emmons agreed to forward the petition to the War Department in Washington for the approval of still higher authority . He expressed the hope that the petition could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an answer from Washington General Emmons insisted upon establishing the truth as to the loyalty of the population ; and the Intelligence Services searchingly re-examined their files covering more than a hundred thousand individuals . What did the records show ? 1 . That the alien Japanese included many who were dangerous to the security of the United States ; that some of them were so dangerous that they should be arrested and placed in detention camps for the duration of the war , and that others required constant surveillance and restriction . 2 . That there was some pro-Japanese sympathy in the Islands . This was found to be concentrated among the older aliens and in the small isolated colonies of Japanese scattered in the outlying Islands . Nowhere was this sympathy expressed in action and in Honolulu it was felt by only a minority of aliens . 3 . That by their actions an overwhelming majority of Japanese-Americans had shown hatred of the enemy and had made brilliant records in all of the war effort in which they had been allowed to participate . 4 . That not one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either by alien Japanese or by Nisei . Consequently every one of the hundreds of rumors that had circulated in the Islands and on the mainland to that effect was proven definitely false . Furthermore , while it could be shown that dozens of aliens had engaged in espionage , there was no evidence to prove that Japanese-Americans had done so . Many Nisei had lost their lives at Pearl Harbor . Two young men of Japanese extraction were near a heavy machine gun when the attack came . They rushed to assist , loading ammunition belts and burning their hands in the process . When the slugs of an attacking plane ripped the ground about them they stuck to their post , helping to shoot down the attacker . Rushing to the fallen plane , they cut the insignia from the uniforms of the dead enemy and proudly presented them at Naval Intelligence Headquarters . When questioned as to where they had got their trophies they replied , " Off the damned Japs . " The intensive survey showed also many important facts that would have surprised the proponents of wholesale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Hawaiian Islands could not continue to eat if this third of their population was sent away : the work of the Japanese feeds most of the Island population . If you were one of four white people on a raft in the middle of the ocean , and two Nisei were also seated there ? scared and glad to be alive ? would you push them off ? Perhaps you might be so inclined . But if you knew that they could supply ninety-one per cent of the food , eight per cent of the milk and butter , and sixty per cent of the drugs which might sustain the six of you until you were rescued you would allow them to remain . You would eat the food and use the drugs they supplied because you would prefer that to starving alone . That is what happened in Hawaii . Then appeared the first small break in the stormy sky . Toward the end of May , 1942 , word was received from Washington , not that the plan had been fully approved , but that the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working as labor troops in the Army ? the men of the 297th and 298th Battalions ? were at last to have their chance to fight . Throwing down their shovels , they hastily made their farewells and marched up the gangplank of the ship that was to take them away . Landing on the mainland , which most of them had never seen , these Hawaiian-Japanese entrained for Camp McCoy , Wisconsin , where they were reorganized as the 100th Infantry Battalion . Their officers were both white and American-Japanese ; their Commander , Lieut . Col. Farrant L. Turner , had been born in Honolulu . They were promptly equipped for combat . The grinning Nisei lovingly slapped the butts of their new rifles and machine guns with their calloused hands . Over the one hundred thousand acres of woods and fields of Camp McCoy the men from Hawaii hiked , maneuvered , and fought sham battles . The people of the State of Wisconsin found them to be intelligent , quiet , and courteous . The other units of the Army called them " J-A 's " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed the news of the 100th Battalion with eager interest . In December , a Christmas gift fund of $1,500 was started for the lads in Wisconsin ? and was quickly oversubscribed many times . When the Japanese of Hawaii learned that the people of Wisconsin were friendly to their sons , invitations were issued to many a son of Wisconsin in the regular Army for Christmas dinner , to Hawaiian luaus ( feasts ) , and to other entertainments . Colonel Turner , Commander of the 100th Battalion , wrote to General Emmons : " It is my belief that there is not a single Japanese family in Hawaii , whether alien or citizen , that does not have one or more relatives , friends , or acquaintances in my battalion . Consequently I feel that the well-demonstrated good will and general co-operation of the civilian population of Japanese descent in the Islands are to a considerable extent part and parcel with the continued success of this battalion . " Here was recognition of the fact that loyalties are things that can be made or broken ? and an indication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be assured . Just as we recognize the Japanese enemy within , and deal with him effectively , so must we recognizethose Americans of Japanese ancestry who have given definite and convincing proof of their loyalty . Iv ! bur in the months following the Battle I ) of Midway , with invasion becoming more remote , the people of Hawaii grew more restless . Wartime restrictions , which had been scarcely annoying while danger was near , became the source of constant complaint . For the first time since the beginning of the war there was leisure for argument . Demands were renewed that the Army deal summarily with the Japanese population . One critic of the military , more vocal than the rest , advocated mass deportation . In a pamphlet entitled " Shall the Japanese Be Allowed to Dominate Hawaii ? " he wrote : " As soon as conditions warrant , lat least 100,000 Japanese should be moved to inland mainland farming States . . If the Germans can move 3,000,000 men from occupied Europe within a short period , surely our great Government can move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This plan was much discussed . While it was criticized as illegal , unconstitutional , unjust , and un-American , it was nevertheless favored by some . Appeals for support were made to organizations on the mainland : to the California branch of the American Legion , the California Federation of Labor , the Native Sons of the Golden West . Under the plan an effort would be made to deprive Japanese born in the United States of their American citizenship rights which are now guaranteed to them under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution . The Nisei in Hawaii were becoming discouraged . If such proposals were seriously considered , how could they continue to have faith in democracy ? What , they wondered , was happening in Washington ? There was plenty happening in Washington . Several government departments were seriously debating the problem of the Nisei and his loyalty , and searching for a satisfactory solution . The War Relocation Authority , whose able director , Dillon Myer , had been borrowed from the Department of Agriculture last summer to take over the thankless task of administering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem . The chief one was to maintain the morale of Japanese-Americans herded into the camps with their alien elders . The task of finding places where these citizens could make their homes and earn a living had been complicated by the distinctly hostile attitude of Midwestern white Americans . With no other place for the Nisei to go , the Relocation Centers had become what they were never intended to be ? concentration camps , where alien Japanese with pro-Axis sympathies stirred up feelings of persecution and discrimination . With barbed wire about them , and armed soldiers outside , they had become centers of growing discontent . Without the means , the proper personnel , or the authority to separate the loyal from the disloyal , Mr. Myer was faced with a situation which was becoming daily more difficult . Meanwhile the War Department had already embarked upon an investigation of its own . When the petition from Hawaii had first arrived in Washington it had been referred to a board , which however had failed to approve it . Assistant Secretary of War John J. McCloy had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McNarncy , Deputy Chief of Staff , and other general officers , he had reopened the case for further consideration . These men were determined to have the facts . What were the facts ? Special questionnaires were prepared to be executed by American citizens of Japanese ancestry . Teams were made up for the distribution of the questionnaires . These teams were composed of an Army officer and three enlisted men , including one Japanese-American soldier of the Nisei class . After a short period of intensive training by the Provost Marshal General these teams were dispatched to the Relocation Centers to begin their task of separating the loyal from the possibly disloyal . Once filled out , the questionnaires were referred to the Provost Marshal General , where they were checked with the records of Military Intelligence , the Federal Bureau of Investigation , and the Office of Naval Intelligence . Doubtful cases were referred to a special board composed of representatives of the Department of Justice , the Navy Department , the War Relocation Authority , the Federal Bureau of Investigation , the Assistant Chief of Staff , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was fully co-ordinated by the office of the Assistant Secretary of War . V O NCE the evidence was all in and the facts established , the War Department acted with promptness and decision . On January 28 , 1943 , Secretary Stimson announced : " It is the inherent right of every faithful citizen , regardless of ancestry , to bear arms in the nation 's battle . When obstacles to the free expression of that right are imposed by emergency considerations , those barriers should be removed as soon as humanly possible . Loyalty to country is a voice that must be heard , and I am glad that I am now able to give active proof that this basic American belief is not a casualty of the war . " The policy thus expressed by the Secretary of War was fully approved by President Roosevelt in a letter written only three days later ; and in Hawaii , early in February , Lieutenant General Delos C. Emmons announced that he had been directed by the War Department to induct 1,500 citizens of Japanese ancestry into the army as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity , " he said , " to demonstrate the faith the Army has in their loyalty and fighting qualities . " American citizens of Japanese ancestry between the ages of 18 and 37 now became eligible for combat service by applying to their Draft Boards . They were to be trained for service in an active theater . Company officers were to be of Japanese ancestry , to the extent that men with requisite military experience could be found . Opportunity for attendance at service schools and for promotion to higher grades would be open to all enlisted and commissioned personnel on the same basis as for the rest of the Army . " The manner of their response , " General Emmons said , " and the record thee men will establish as fighting soldiers will be one of the best answers to those who question the loyalty of citizens of Japanese ancestry in Hawaii . " Within 48 hours of General Emmons ' announcement the Honolulu Advertiser hit the street with banner headlines : EN LISTMENT CALL MEETS WITH EAGER RESPONSE . As soon as the Draft Boards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tsukiyama , for twelve years city-county attorney and a member of the American Legion , jumped the gun by sending in his application three days before the announcement of the formation of the combat team was made public by General Emmons . At the Kaimuki Board , more than 30 American-born Japanese had applied for enlistment before 11 A.M. Included were two prominent physicians and a dentist . Word came from Kauai in a cable message that 172 young men of the " Garden Island " had petitioned Major Rapp Brush , Commanding Officer for the Kauai District , to enroll them at once as volunteers for the Army . The Honolulu Chamber of Commerce called upon its membership for the fullest co-operation in assuring American-born Japanese that their jabs would be waiting for them at the end of the war . Forty members of Honolulu 's Police Department , headed by Lieutenant Yoshio Hasegawa , volunteered for immediate enlistment . Acting Governor Ernest K. Kai promptly issued this statement : " In connection with the plan of the War Department to accept voluntary enlistment in the United States Army from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this program has my unqualified approval and that every assistance shall be rendered to any territorial employee who desires to enlist . " The Varsity Victory Volunteers , that band of Japanese-Americans who had remained active workers for the Army despite their " inactivation " from the Hawaii Territorial Guard , lost no time in joining up . At their request they were mustered out of civil service by Brigadier General Hans Kramer , Hawaiian Department Engineer , their commander . Standing on the steps of Iolani Palace , General Kramer bade them farewell : " As department engineer under whose direction your work as VVV 's has been carried out , I can attest to your loyalty and can deservedly commend you for that work . With this sincere commendation go my congratulations and good wishes ? confidence in your performance in a new and greater role as fighting members of the United States Army . " Within two weeks of the announcement the number of volunteers in Hawaii had reached 7,500 ? five times the number that had been asked for . And they are still coming . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It serves notice to our enemies that , while we fight for human rights abroad , we do not intend to surrender them at home . The feelings of the Americans of Japanese descent have been eloquently expressed by " Mike " Masaoka of the Japanese-American Citizens League in what he calls their Creed : " I am proud that I am an American citizen of Japanese ancestry , for my very background makes me appreciate more fully the wonderful advantages of this nation . I believe in her institutions , ideals , and traditions ; I glory in her heritage ; I boast of her history ; I trust in her future . She has granted me liberties and opportunities such as no individual enjoys in this world to-day . She has given me an education befitting kings . She has entrusted me with the responsibilities of the franchise . She has permitted me to build a home , to earn a livelihood , to worship , think , speak , and act as I please ? as a free man equal to every other man . " Although some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . come bitter or lose faith , for I know that such persons are not representative of the majority of the American people . True , I shall do all in my power to discourage such practices , but I shall do it in the American way ; aboveboard , in the open , through courts of law , by education , by proving myself to be worthy of equal treatment and consideration . I am firm in my belief that American sportsmanship and attitude of fair play will judge citizenship and patriotism on the basis of action and achievement , and not on the basis of physical characteristics . " Because I believe in America , and I trust she believes in me , and because I have received innumerable benefits from her , I pledge myself to do honor to her at all times , and in all places ; to support herconstitution ; to obey her laws ; to respect her flag ; to defend her against all enemies , foreign or domestic ; to actively assume duties and obligations as a citizen , cheerfully and without any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a better American in a greater America . "                     