@@269150

Thinking perhaps of such hapless compatriots as Joan of Arc and Marie Antoinette , Alphonse Lamartine , the 19th century French poet , declared : " Women are very frequently heroic , but seldom statesmanlike . " Today , more than ever , given charm , taste , tact-and looks-the wife of a ruler can be statesmanlike simply by being a woman . In the color pages that follow , TIME surveys a new and lively generation of First Ladies who are adding style and spirit to statecraft from Abidjan to Washington . Whether entertaining at home or making the foreign rounds with their husbands , the reigning beauties of 1962 are the West 's best argument for face-to-face diplomacy . <P> Of the nine most fetching and effective Queens and Presidents ' wives , none was born to the role . The richest was a souless Paris architecture student when she met her royal husband , the youngest a none too efficient stenographer . Only three come of wealthy families . One Queen was born a princess ; one princess had been a movie queen . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , another from African warriors . <P> For all their differences , the nine First Ladies would probably get along famously at one of the hen parties that are among the most onerous burdens of Queens and Presidents ' wives . All but two could gossip in English and in French . Jacqueline Kennedy and the Empress Farah are both amateur painters of competence . Jordan 's Princess Muna and Brazil 's Maria Tereza Goulart both think Frank Sinatra is the most . They are fond of serious music ; almost all play the piano . Iran 's Farah , the Ivory Coast 's Marie-Thrse Houphouet-Boigny and Monaco 's Princess Grace all buy clothes from Dior , though Grace also fancies Balenciaga ( who designed Belgian Queen Fabiola 's mink-trimmed bridal gown ) , and in her Hollywood days was dressed by Oleg Cassini ( now Jackie 's couturier ) . Save for Fabiola , who had a miscarriage last summer but is reported pregnant again , all the reigning beauties are devoted mothers whose main occupational complaint is that their children have to spend too much time in the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in high places is largely a byproduct of democracy ; outside Britain , even royalty nowadays is generally free to choose and marry for love . Most of the reigning beauties also meet democracy 's most demanding criterion of successful first-ladyship : each , in her way , embodies her country 's ideal of womanhood . They are fond of outdoor life ; they swim , ride horseback , play tennis or golf . They are enthusiastic and effective sponsors of charitable and cultural causes . Virtually without exception , they are chic , vivacious , quick-witted and warm . Above all , they are immense political and social assets to their husbands . Watching their wives at the center of attention during a recent Washington banquet , John Kennedy quipped to the Shah of Iran : " We might as well have both stayed at home . "                     