@@494750

Army Snow Job by William L. Robb A. J. Liebling once wrote in The Wayward Press that the odds against a reporter really understanding a new situation and new characters on an assignment are impossibly high . " The best reporters occasionally fail badly , and the fair ones half-fail often , " he wrote . Drew Middleton 's story on the army 's new " Nation-Building " program in the Sunday , March 7 N.Y . Times was a case in point . " Kenneth Locklear , " Middleton began , " a six-yearold Lumbee Indian boy , had never been to see a doctor . Doctors , even the two overworked ones in Hoke County , NC , cost money . The Locklears have their pride . They did not want to go into debt to a doctor . But Kenneth was badly scalded and people said there was an army doctor working at the health center in Raeford ) the county seat ) . Kenneth was taken to see the doctor , Capt . George R. Reavell , who wears the Green Beret of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Headlined " To Carolinians , a Green Beret Means a Helping Hand , " and accompanied by a picture of a Green Beret sergeant leading North Carolina sixth-graders in calisthenics , Middleton 's story went on to tell how , since October , 1970 , " army doctors and medical corpsmen , engineers and chaplains , military police and local government experts have worked with the people and the authorities in the two counties ( Hoke and Anson ) to improve medical care , hygiene , sanitation , educational facilities and utilities . " Lt. Gen. John J. Tolson , commanding general of Ft . Bragg and the originator of the " Nation-Building " concept , told Middleton that the army envisioned the . program as training for a mission it will be increasingly entrusted with abroad , under the Nixon Doctrine : helping other countries stabilize their societies and strengthen their internal defense . Middleton then quoted Col. David McFadden Jr. , assistant chief of staff for civil-military operations , as saying that " In the past , we could train personnel to go through the motions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was n't that much on-the-job training , which we think is vital for units that could be called upon at a moment 's notice to conduct operations in overseas areas . But do n't get the idea Nation-Building is just for training troops . The concern for assisting underprivileged people right at the doorstep of Ft . Bragg is equally important . " As evidence of the army 's benevolent intentions , Middleton cited a string of Special Forces civic action successes in Anson County , N C , one of the hundred poorest regions in the country : the building of a dispensary , installation of playground equipment , replacing of broken windows in a school , first-aid and gym instruction , repairing of electric generators , and aid to the police department in controlling drug abuse . Even if all these claims for Anson County are true ? and the army 's efforts , praiseworthy as far as they went , were n't much ? Middleton 's subsequent listing of equal gains in Hoke County , the second pilot/target region , was false . Army medical personnel ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on 700-plus schoolchildren , as Middleton reported , and Green Beret medics and two civil affairs trainees had been working at the Hoke Health Center since last December , staffing clinics and updating and filing the Center 's six-year records backlog ( TB , maternity , death certificates , immunizations , etc. - a secretarial nightmare ) . Army personnel had not , however , " brought county medical records up to date , " as Middleton claimed . As a GI member of the 28th Civil Affairs Company who worked on records at the Center for five months , Dec. ' 70-Apr. ' 71 , I can say categorically that Middleton erred . The work was still in progress and far from completed when I left in mid-April . But Middleton was only warming to his tale . He ticked off a string of army successes in Hoke County that were all nonevents ; not only did they not take place , but the brass had vetoed several of them : " The military police have helped the Raeford police department in training recruits and in modernizing the records . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Old but still valuable city equipment has been repaired by mechanics . " All fictions of someone 's imagination ! Middleton quoted Dr. Harry McLean , the former health director in Raeford , as believing " one action by Col. Dinapoli 's XVIIIth Corps surgeon men was of national significance . They learned that two women in the secondary stage of syphilis had had 62 local contacts . A doctor and two corpsmen found and treated 36 of the contacts in two days .... That stopped an epidemic , believe me , " said Dr. McLean . Dr. McLean 's anecdote was sheer hyperbole . County health records on syphilis infection show that the disease has been endemic among the poor white , black and Indian populations of Hoke County for decades . Dr. McLean , through Middleton , was blowing the incident out of all proportion . All in all , a Times reader could easily have gotten the impression that the army was well on the way to eradicating disease and poverty in two very poor counties , thereby winning the hearts and minds of the people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's motives ? - certainly less altruistic than army public-relations men snowed Middleton into believing . In my five months at the Hoke Health Center , I was in almost daily contact with members of the 28th Civil Affairs Co. liaison team who were ostensibly coordinating the program in Hoke County , as well as with the Green Beret doctor ( Capt . Reavell ) and NCO medics sent from Ft . Bragg . During the first month or so , the two civil affairs officers ( rotated every two weeks , for maximum training advantage to the army but minimum convenience to county officials ) and one other enlisted man and myself were excited by the program and worked hard to get it moving . Our spirit drooped as we saw the grudging support by Ft . Bragg higher-ups and began to guess at - and hear our own commanding officer , Lt. Col. Israel Lopez , along with several other key officers up the chain of command , confirm off the record the political and public relations considerations that lay be-hind the Nation-Building idea : the program would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restore its tarnished reputation , and would look good on Tolson 's service record , possibly earning him another star . My CO 's reaction to a speech by Brig . Gen. Henry Emerson Special Forces commandant at Bragg , reprinted in the Green Beret magazine Veritas , in which he dwelt on the program 's training possibilities , was that the big brass should keep the army 's ulterior motives under their pistol belts and not publicize the training angle . As our disillusionment grew , we arrived for work in Raeford later and later , took longer coffee and lunch breaks , left earlier every day and came to look on the whole exercise as a good way to " ghost " away from the fort . Requests for army personnel or materiel help on projects like repairing a tractor were several times denied ( sometimes , in all fairness , rightly so , as with a request for army personnel to help pick up litter on county roads ) , and we often met confusion and pessimism from the brass who required daily reports from our liaison team @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army over the army 's proper role in Hoke County and much balking and buck-passing in our immediate chain-of-command . Except for a set of SOP guidelines written in armyese style - we were given no real guidance on the Nation-Building program from the Department of the Army . Apart from the question of the army 's motives in " Nation-Building , " there is the more important question of the wisdom of military involvement in domestic or foreign civil affairs and antipoverty work . The army 's work in both Anson and Hoke counties amounted to little more than cosmetic surgery - making short-term , high-visibility surface improvements in regions that need open-heart surgery . The US Army is being trained as a counter-revolutionary force ; it is not equipped , philosophically or practically , to spearhead . social and political renewal either in poor counties at home or poor nations abroad . Finally , there is something cynical in the army 's readiness to manipulate public opinion ( CBS-TV and Time magazine also sent teams to report the army 's antipoverty program ) , For example : what will happen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctors and two clinics serve a population of 17,000 ? With little likelihood that enough new civilian doctors will settle in the county to meet the medical needs of the poor there , how long will it be before the army loses interest in maintaining its medical presence there ? How can army civil affairs personnel who who are being farmed out to the county for two-week stints on a training exercise make any real contributions to the lives of residents ? And suppose the army took its domestic rural development work seriously and stopped playing politics with it : how would the lessons learned in Hoke County apply in Honduras or Cambodia ? Before being drafted , I taught English for two years in Thailand as a Peace Corps Volunteer , and I submit the answer most cultural anthropologists or Peace Corps Volunteers would.give is : " not much . " The rest of A. J. Liebling 's quote is apt : " A good reporter , if he chooses the right approach , can understand a cat or an Arab . The choice is the problem , and if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Middleton chose the wrong approach in North Carolina : He accepted what the army told him .                     