@@468150

WHEN we assumed colonial con- trol over the Philippines we undertook responsibilities far more varied and extensive than seem then to have been generally realized . How have we met these responsibilities ? And more particularly , what should we do now ? For one result of last summer 's investigation has been to elicit a con ? sensus of opinion from the Islands that the present state of affairs is " intoler ? able . " Philippine conditions were so differ ? ent from those with which we were familiar in the United States , and the problems involved were so complex and specialized , that the obvious suggestion was made that we study not only Brit ? ish colonial methods but , more particu ? larly , those which the Dutch have evolved during the last three centuries in their East Indies , immediately to the south . For it was from there that the forebears of almost all of the peoples of the Philip ? pines came , and natural conditions in the two archipelagos are quite similar . But an American official is reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans can learn nothing from others . " Though having due regard for the inspiration that comes from good intentions and self-confidence , a modicum of respect for experience , nevertheless , led the present writer to visit Singapore and the Netherlands East Indies in order to obtain some practical Malayan background before looking into affairs in our own Malay colony . While the Philippines run north and south for a distance little greater thanthat from Chicago to New Orleans and have a land area about equal to that of New England , New York , and New Jersey , the Netherlands East Indies stretch along the equator almost as far as from New York to San Francisco and are equal in area to about a quarter of the United States . In the Philippines there are nearly eleven million Christian Filipinos , more than four hundred thou ? sand Mohammedan Moros , about seven hundred and fifty thousand other non-Christian natives , over fifty thousand Chinese , and about ten thousand Oc ? cidentals other than our garrison or a total of about twelve million . But in the Dutch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as in the Philip ? pines , from the most primitive savages to cultivated university graduates , close to a million Chinese , and nearly two hun ? dred thousand who are classed as Euro ? peans . Thus , the Netherlands Indies have six and a half times the area and more than four times the population of the Philippines , with an average density of about seventy people per square mile as against a hundred in our colony . Though there are about seven hun ? dred inhabitants to the mile in Java and five hundred in the densest Philippine province ? Massachusetts and Rhode Island have nearly five and six hundred respectively ? yet in both archipelagos there are vast areas of very sparsely peopled wild lands . Of the total one hundred and fourteen thousand , four hundred square miles of land in the Philippines , less than seventeen thou ? sand are settled ? that is , less than the area of Massachusetts and New Hamp shire ? while the unsettled public do ? main , ceded by the Spanish Crown to the people of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles . So more than eighty-five per cent of the area of the Philippines is virgin pioneer country . The orderly conduct of affairs , high state of development , and consequent contentment of the natives in the Neth ? erlands East Indies are in such contrast to conditions in the Philippines as to ar ? rest attention , especially in view of the basic similarity of the peoples and of the natural conditions of the two archipel ? agos . We usually send to administrative duties in the Philippines men who , how ? ever intelligent , have little or no knowl ? edge either of colonial affairs or of Malays . On the other hand , it often hap ? pens that Dutch officials have spent their childhood , as did their forebears , in the very province they come to administer after years of special training at home and in the colonial service . Indeed , one of the most notable things in the Netherlands East Indies is the intimate understanding and sympathy that exists between the Dutch and the more civi ? lized natives of all classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limitations , and apparently realize that their interests are best served by cheer ? ful co-operation and mutual tolerance . This is well portrayed by the Dutch max ? im that " the native is never at fault , " meaning that if anything goes wrong it is to be attributed to failure on the part of the European to understand the native point of view or limitations and to supply proper leadership . While this suggests a paternalistic attitude with which many Americans unacquainted with Malay life will have scant sym ? pathy , it also suggests a tolerant sense of responsibility that is worth pondering ; for it is the fruit of three centuries of very intimate experience with Malays on the part of a very practical and success ? ful people . Although the Crown and legislature of Holland are the highest authority over the Netherlands East Indies , yet the colonial service has been brought to such a high level that , in practice , this sovereign authority restricts its legisla ? tive activities regarding the Indies to laws of constitutional importance , laws influencing their economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legis ? lation is by decree of the Governor General in Java who has an appointed Council , supplemented by a Vollcsraad of forty-nine members the majority of whom are also appointed and whose powers are merely advisory to the Gov ? governor General . Thus , the sovereign power in Holland restrains itself from detailed interference in the internal government of the Dutch Indies and places virtually undivided responsibility and authority on the Governor General . But here again comes in the self-restraint , bred of experience . For only in Java and Madura does the Dutch adminis ? tration act directly , while in all the " outer districts , " and in the sultanates of Djokjakarta and Soerakarta in Java , government proper is through the local sultans who , however , are provided with Dutch advisors . There is a nice bal ? ance maintained between upholding such native sultans , holding them strictly responsible for local law and order , and restraining them from their traditional and excessive exploitation of their sub ? jects . In spite of such indirect rule there is an extensive and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health , and educational activities , most painstakingly adapted to the practical purpose of helping in every way possible the capacities of the natives to make the colony more and more productive . Over four hundred and forty million dollars have been raised for public improvements by colonial bonds . Rail ? roads and excellent automobile roads run through all the more settled parts of the colony . The ships of the " K. P. M. " travel a total of nearly three million miles a year in carrying on the interisland commerce of the archipelago and give probably the most efficient service of that kind in the world . The bureaus of economics and agriculture are among the most important , and particular at ? tention is given to research and higher education in these subjects There is an excellent and constantly improving health service . But in general educa ? tion , as might be expected , the aim is practical rather than academic . Recog ? nizing that virtually all of the children of the teeming agricultural masses in ? evitably must live their lives out as farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help them become bet ? ter native farmers rather than pseudo-Hollanders . They are not misled by inspiring accounts of how the Dutch threw off the yoke of Spain . Instead of the Malay 's gift for flamboyant oratory being fostered , his native talent for decorative design is cultivated . Also , the Dutch have too much common sense to add to the children 's task the wholly unnecessary obstacle of giving the instruction in a language foreign to their pupils . And likewise they have common sense enough to realize that , even if " unification " were possible as between the many tribes of their archi ? pelago , it would serve no useful purpose from their point of view . It may be objected that all of this is merely utilitarian rather than culturally uplifting . But the answer is that the path of the native to higher culture is through improvement in practical pro ? ductivity . Indeed , one might almost go so far as to say that the ultimate aim of the whole administration in the Nether ? lands East Indies is greater profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ex ? ploitation . " Undoubtedly , in former centuries the Dutch were exploiters , as were others . But they have learned by experience that development yields greater profits , just as our industrialists have learned that high wages and excel ? lent factory conditions pay . So the entire emphasis is on development in which the first , most direct and most enduring benefits accrue to those whose circumstances are developed , that is , the natives . It has been said with truth in the Dutch legislature that their East Indies are the cork on which Holland floats . " That is , the profits from their products and trade are so exceedingly important to Holland that no pains are spared to give them as effective management as pos ? sible in every respect . So it seems logical to attribute the otherwise incon ? ceivable improvement of native condi ? tions to the close attention . given them by the people and government of Holland because of the importance of the profits involved ? a situation in sharp con ? trast to our public and Congressional neglect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no material interest to us , This indifference is readily under ? standable if we recall our own history . The comparatively meager and unprom ? ising resources of our original States forced our forebears into extensive for ? eign trading for ready money between 1790 and 1880 ? a period during which our activities in Eastern Asia were sec ? ond only to those of Britain , and during which Russell , Sturgis &; Company , a branch of Russell and Company , of Boston , Canton , and Shanghai , became the leading foreign traders in Manila . But this first overseas phase of our national life gave way to that in which we were wholly absorbed in developing the Mississippi Valley and our West , an undertaking greatly helped by the ac ? cumulated profits of our Asiatic trade . With such broad opportunities and abundant resources for the time at home , and without the spur that had driven earlier Americans and others to search the wide world for supplies and mar ? kets , virtually all of us ceased to take conscious interest in overseas affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Philippines in 1899 , we looked upon them more as a field for altruistic social and political effort than as a very back ? ward country whose peoples would be most benefited by sound development . of their economic status with commensu ? rate results to ourselves . In other words , we got the cart before the horse in cen ? tering our efforts on the cultural uplift of the peoples of the Philippines before seeing to it that the economic foundation essential to such a superstructure was broadly and solidly laid . But some years ago we entered on a new national era in which our manufac ? turers and farmers are beginning to realize that the difference between profit and penury depends on export markets for surplus products and upon assured supplies of foodstuffs and essential raw materials which we can not raise at home . For as Dr. E. B. Ball , of the Department of Agriculture , recently said , " The United States is to-day a food-importing nation , measured in dollars ? that is , we import more of sugars , tea , coffee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ export of wheat and meat , " And to this Professor Pearl , of Johns Hopkins University , adds that before the end of the century one-half of the calories re ? quired to sustain the people of the United States will have to be imported , princi ? pally from the tropics . Also in the matter of raw materials it is common knowl ? edge now that many of our main man ? ufactures are as dependent on key imports from overseas as the entire automobile industry is on rubber . As may be recalled , this situation was the subject of a special inquiry last win ? ter by the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce of the House of Representatives who reported that the costs to us of imports of rubber , coffee , nitrates , iodine , sisal , raw silk , and cam ? phor ? of all of which we consume between a half and three-quarters of the world 's production -- are materially increased by controls exercised by the governments of the countries in which they are pro ? duced . Continuing , the report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pie do not producein sufficient quantities to satisfy our re ? quirements and which could be con ? trolled by action of foreign governments . And it pointed out that if the average price for rubber in November and De ? cember of 19e5 had held for 1.926 , we should have been obliged to pay nearly seven hundred and thirty-eight million dollars more than the production cost of our rubber imports for the year and over five hundred and seventy-eight million dollars more than their agreed fair price . With respect to such government controls , Secretary Hoover said in a concurrent statement : We must build up free sources of supply for reasons much more far-reaching than the simple purpose of securing unobstructed supplies of raw materials for ourselves . If we can not secure such freedom in these materials , and if the world is to witness further extension of these controls over other commodities , we are confronted with a most appalling vision of future world relations . It will he a world in which governments are to be engaged in negotiating and " jockey ? ing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the very lifeblood of industry and the necessities of every-day life . As things stand , about forty per cent of the tropical lands of the world are independent , fifty-nine per cent are con ? trolled by European Powers , and less than one per cent , consisting mainly of the Philippines , are under our flag . But our imports of such tropical produce as sugar , rubber , camphor , coconut products , hemp , sisal , and other fibres , tobacco , coffee , tea , cocoa , rice , sago , spices , quinine , indigo , and so forth are far greater than those of any other na ? tion and cost us over two billion dollars a year ? of which more than five hundred million are an excess charge due to for ? eign government controls . Yet vir ? tually every variety of these necessities is or could be grown in the Philippines . And as little more than a tenth of the area of the Islands is now under cultiva ? tion ? although their exports are close to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the development of all possible parts of the ninety-eight thousand miles of wild lands would produce at least enough to break foreign controls and might go far toward sup ? plying our requirements for some of these commodities . But as the leading Chinese Mestizo politician of the Islands , Senator Os-meta , recently said , " There can be no economic development until the political situation is cleared up . Foreign capital is needed but will not come in until the uncertainty ends . It is time the situa ? tion was cleared up . " The diverse characteristics and varying capacities of the peoples of the Islands for political activity not only have con ? tributed to this situation but should be the controlling factors in determining future Philippine political policy . At present there are eighty-seven dis ? tinct ethnographic groups of natives in the Philippines . The three major divisions usually made are as between the Chris ? tian Filipinos proper , the Mohammedan Moros , and the many pagan tribes scat ? tered throughout the Archipelago . Inci ? dentally , it should be noted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-Christian peoples being repre ? sented in the Insular legislature merely by two senators and six representatives appointed by the Governor-General . Likewise , the non-Christian provinces have governors similarly appointed ; but their appointments are subject to ratification by the Philippine Senate . As the latter makes a practice of with ? holding its approval from all nominees other than its own candidates for political ? cal preferment ? and this almost in ? variably against Americans ? the result in practice is that the non-voting tribes are under the rule of the Filipino polit ? icos . Naturally , there are such differences in dialect among the many non-Christian tribes , and between them and the Fili ? pinos proper , as to debar general inter ? communication . Indeed , the same is true as between such large tribes of Filipinos as the Tagalogs and Visayans whose languages differ more than French does from Italian . In fact , the Philip ? pine legislature has to conduct its pro ? ceedings in either Spanish or English for lack of any native medium gener ? ally understandable by its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islands can speak either one of these two lan ? guages . This may seem surprising in view of the fact that English is supposed to be the medium of instruction in even the primary schools ? a provision pursuant to our hope that the eighty-seven vari ? eties of natives will acquire a common means of intercommunication and be ? come " unified , " and although thereby the extra difficulty of learning their lessons in a foreign tongue is imposed on the children . But only about forty per cent of the children of school age go to school . The average attendance of those who do go is less than three years , during which they learn little more than American children do in their first year ; and less than two out of every ten en ? trants go beyond the fourth grade , where ? as nine out of every ten American school children enter the seventh grade . With such meager and brief school attend ? ance it is inevitable that what little English ? of sorts ? is learned does not " stick . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third of the population is literate , even in any of the eighty-seven native dialects . And undoubtedly this accounts for the total circulation of newspapers and periodicals published in the Philippines being only about one hundred and fifty thousand , or one for every eighty natives as against one for about every three persons in the United States . Such conditions seem to contradict the alleged passion of the Filipinos for education , a passion presumably evi ? denced by one out of every fifty-four children attaining high school . But it is noteworthy that the very great majority of the fifty-two thousand children in the high schools are either Chinese Mesti ? zos or Spanish Mestizos of whom there are , respectively , about half a million and two hundred thousand in the Islands . For few Malays of unmixed blood have enough ability and tenacity to persist up to the point of entering high school . But even among these more ambitious Mestizo children the great aim is to get a distinguishing diploma rather than a useful education ; to be freed from future work rather than to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up a half-educated class of Mes ? tizo youngsters , locally designated as ilustrados , who have the glib assertive ? ness of the most obnoxious sophomores ( saphos moron meaning wise fool ) and whose one ambition is to be , first , political ? cal henchmen and then affluent leaders . The tragedy of the Philippine school system is that the curriculum of the lower grades was patterned on our own , with emphasis on academics and Ameri ? can political history , in the expectation that , as with us , most of the children would pass on to the higher grades . Few except the Mestizos do this , while the great mass , having been merely ex ? posed to instruction in things entirely beyond their grasp , pass out virtually uneducated and uninstructed in any ? thing that will help them to live their peasant lives more effectively . In our enthusiasm over " universal education " we have most mistakenly failed to adapt the instruction given to the capacities and needs of the people . Thus we have in the Philippines some ? what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low cultural average , and about ten million lowly and illiterate Malay peasants , or taos , as they are called . Scattered in little barrios , they patiently till the soil generation after generation , utterly ignorant not only of the world but of anything more than a few miles from their nipa huts . They are undernourished , disease ridden , and ninety per cent of them are so depleted by intestinal parasites that , as a people , they would be utterly incapable of holding their own in the world . And lording it over these pitiable millions of taos are the Mestizo politicos and ca ? ciques to whom they are absolutely sub ? servient and by whom they arc ruth ? lessly exploited . With the fearsome aid of the politically appointed justices of the peace and fiscals , or magistrates and prosecuting attorneys , the Shylock caciques hold them in servile bondage , while the chief politico in each barrio tells them ( as be is told ) how to vote . Thus a " unanimous desire for complete , immediate , and absolute independence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the politicos and caciques . While it is the product of quite natural Mestizo cupidity , it has been possible only be ? cause of the political incapacity of the tao millions and because of American neglect and ignorance of Philippine conditions . But as the power to prevent or to correct is ours , we Americans and not the natives , whether politicos or taos , are at fault . And if we would estimate the chances of the Filipino masses being independently able to free themselves from their Mestizo over ? lords and to develop a. sentient electorate of the Archipelago as a whole , we can do so from a lecture on constitutional government by Woodrow Wilson in which he said : Self-government is not a mere form of institution , to be had when desired if only proper pains be taken . It is a form of character . It follows upon the long dis ? cipline which gives a people self-possession , sell-mastery , the habit of order and peace and common counsel , and a reverence for law which will not fail when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-control of political maturity . And these things can not be had without long discipline . . . . We can give the Filipinos constitutional government , a government which they may count upon to be just , a government based upon some dear under ? standing , intended for their good and not for our aggrandizement ; but we must for the present supply that government . But we can not give them self-government . Self-government is not a thing which can be " given " to any people , because it is a form of character and not of constitution . No people can be " given " the self-control of maturity . Only a long apprenticeship of obedience can secure them the precious pos ? session , a thing no more to be bought than given . They can not be presented with the character of a community . .. . The conclusion seems inevitable that there must be decades of tutelage , under real protection by us , if the Filipinos and other native masses are to have a chance to develop ultimately the character necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mention independent self-sufficiency in the seething Orient . And the alter ? native before them , were we to withdraw before our task is done , would be un ? ending exploitation by their politicos or by their more virile neighbors . But in order to see what corrective steps should be taken now , we must realize what the present political situation in the Islands is and something of how it came about . In 1908 William Howard Taft , who had been chairman of our first Philippine Commission and was then Secretary of War , used the following terms in ex ? pressing to President Roosevelt his understanding of our policy toward the Islands : Shortly stated , the national policy is to govern the Philippine Islands for the benefit and welfare and uplifting of the people of the Islands and gradually to extend to them , as they shall show themselves fit to exercise it , a greater and greater measure of popular self-government . What should be empha ? sized in the statement of our national policy is that we wish to prepare the Filipinos for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the main proposition is that when the Filipino people as a whole show themselves reasonably fat to conduct a popular self-government , maintaining law and order and offering equal protection of the laws and civil riziits to rich and poor , and ( then ) desire complete independence of the United States , they shall be given it . While reference is made to " the bene ? fit and welfare and uplifting of the people of the Islands , " it is noteworthy that the emphasis is political , is on the develop ? ment of popular self-government by the whole people and with justice to all rather than on first bringing about those basic human and economic conditions necessarily precedent to good and stable self-government . Whereas the far more developed and justly governed Nether ? lands East Indies now have only an appointively controlled Vollaraa , c1 under their Governor-General and his Council , in 1907 we set up a legislative Philippine Assembly , elected under a broad fran ? chise although the electorate was even less capable of exercising the vote than it now is . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selves elected to it and made it a rostrum from which to demand forthwith the independence William Jennings Bryan had advocated in 1900 as a Democratic party policy . And their clamor was so successful in Washington that , when a Democratic Administration and Con ? congress came into power in 1913 , the emphasis in Philippine administrative matters was shifted from good govern ? ment to Filipino self-government , a shift that was reflected in the organic law for the Islands which Congress enacted in 1913 , known as the Jones Law . This present law set up what is virtu ? ally the Congressional system of govern ? ment , with separation of powers as be ? tween the administration , the legislative body , and the judiciary . And in imita ? tion of our system , it provided for ratifi ? cation by the Philippine Senate of virtually all important appointments to office made by the Governor-General . Undoubtedly this was an inadvertent but none the less disastrous bit of muddling that well illustrates how Congress has acted in Philippine mat ? ters without taking into consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually has the political support , or courtesy , of the majority in the Senate for the ratification of his appointments . But both parties in the Philippine Senate habitually join in opposing the Governor-General , and not only refuse to ratify his appointments but let him know that they will ratify only their own nominees for appointive offices . It is as though a Republican majority in our Senate were to withhold from a Demo ? cratic President ratification of all others than Republicans of its own selection for Cabinet and other offices . One result in the Philippines is that the Governor-General has forced upon him by their Senate a Cabinet of Filipino politicos upon whose advice and personal loyalty he can not rely because they may well be both incompetent and antagonis ? tic to him and to his duties . This obliges the Governor-General to call on Washington for trustworthy assistants and advisors . But as the Philippines are under the War Department , only army officers can legally be detailed to such duty . It is somewhat as though our President could fill his Cabinet positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ select for him . But by far the most important result of the Philippine Senate 's refusing to ratify appointments of others than its own nominees is that , in effect , it thus selects such important officials as the provincial governors , the judges of the courts of first instance , the justices of the peace , and the fiscals . And needless to say , it selects Filipinos and selects them for their subserviency to the chief politicos rather than for their ability to serve the public . The state of affairs thus brought about is authoritatively described in the fol ? lowing quotation from a letter written by Manuel Quezon , President of the Phil ? ippine Senate , to Senator Osmena when the latter was Speaker of the House : Since the government of the Philippines was established by the provisions of the Jones Law . . . it may be said that practi ? cally all measures which received your ap ? proval were transformed into laws , and no law could be approved without your consent . The department secretaries , individually and collectively , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing against your opinion was ever performed by them . Recommendations on appointments made by the secretaries to the Governor-General were made upon your initiative , at least with your consent . Your veto in these cases was final and definite . Such practices put the executive and legislative powers of the government of the Philippines in the hands of two men . I say two because all this was allowed to go on with my knowledge and consent , or at least with my tolerance . Thus there was created without provision that would authorize it , and merely with our consent , not as legis ? lators , but as members of the same party , a truly supreme authority over the Cabinet and the legislature . Frankly acknowledging that control over appointments had put the executive as well as the legislative powers of the government of the Philippines in the hands of himself and Senator Osmefia , this statement of Quezon 's also permits us to draw inferences as to the real at ? titude of these two chief politicos toward popular self-government by and for the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such sultanic control over virtually every phase of the government gives its possessors the means of per ? petuating their power over a politically incompetent electorate . For , as hasbeen suggested , the ramifications of the sys ? tem down to the petty politicos , justices of the peace and fiscals in the barrios can be and is used not only to exploit the tao electorate financially but to coerce it politically . In short , instead of presiding over the evolution of a sound popular self-govern ? ment for the peoples of the Philippines , we have acquiesced in the creation of such a native autocracy as was entirely natural for the Mestizo politicos to set up for their own particular profit if we gave them the chance . And as the power to prevent this has constantly been in our hands , we and not the natives , whether politicos or taos , have been at fault . Yet it is under such popular and political conditions that some of us give heed to the obviously artificial clamor for " complete , immediate , and absolute independence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by giving the Islands " a Dominion form of government. - We should understand that , for the better part of a decade , the leading Filipino politicos themselves have realized that such independence would be extremely detrimental to their interests . What they want is absolute and complete internal autonomy , the discontinuance of an American Gover ? nor-General and , above all , the with ? drawal of an American Insular Auditor ; and yet that we shall protect the nil ? ippines , no matter what may happen to the persons and property of foreigners in them , and shall finance them . The clamor for independence is nothing more than a trading position from which the politicos hope to get , under a Dominion form , a protected and financed autonomy that will let them do whatever they may choose unrestrainedly within the Islands . There can he no question of our for ? saking the peoples of the Philippines until they have proved that , unaided , they can maintain a sound popular government , giving even-handed justice and equal opportunity to all , and doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orient . The only question is what steps we should take toward so developing conditions in the Philippines that their peoples may best acquire the material foundation and matured character precedent to real self-government and ultimate independ ? ence , if they then desire it . The simple and fundamental way to correct the political situation , in the interest of the Philippine masses , would be to end the present tragic farce of pseudo-popular self-government , and then to develop , rationally and soundly , first the material , secondly the cultural , and finally the political circumstances and capacities of the natives under a Governor-General and Colonial Council who would be given full authority and would be held strictly responsible . But such direct action is not to be considered . We are more likely to attempt to com ? promise with the present situation by partially palliative measures . The power of the politicos comes from their control over virtually all political and judicial offices , because ratification by the Philippine Senate is required on appointments nominally made by the Governor-General . If Congress were merely to repeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make all such appointments without ratification , the power of the politicos , based on patronage , would be utterly destroyed and the now all-power ? ful legislators would be obliged to look to the Governor-General . Obviously , this would be a backward step " ? from the point of view of the politicos . But it would be a forward step in the interest of good government , provided we were to see to it that a proper person invariably occupied the office of Governor-General . Thus at one stroke , the Governor-General would be enabled to appoint only men believed to be competent and trustworthy to all administrative and judicial offices under him . And then the Philippines would no longer be " The Isles of Fear " where there is neither justice nor mercy for the lowly or politically weak . Another matter . It is axiomatic among us that self-control is a prereq ? uisite to the proper control of others . Proven ability to maintain orderly self-government certainly should be an essen ? tial prerequisite to that greatest of re ? sponsibilities , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been granted have not yet shown that they can govern themselves ; and their politicos have manifested the re ? verse of due regard for the interests of their own electorate . Nevertheless , and counter to our plighted word to the Moros , they and some seven hundred and fifty thousand oilier non-Christian natives , living mainly in the wild lands throughout the Archipelago , are now in effect ruled by the politicos , as previously indicated . It may not be desirable to restrict the franchise already given . But those it ( nominally ) puts in power should not be allowed to rule over other and extraneous areas . Therefore , the powers of the Philippine Legislature should be strictly limited in all matters to the specific electoral districts from which the members of its House of Representatives are elected ; and t he non ? voting peoples and areas of the Islands should be in every respect ? as they desire ? under the American Administration in the Philippines . Many of our legislative blunders un ? doubtedly have been due , in part , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British and Dutch have . And it should be realized that the politicos work against our developing such a staff by reducing the salaries at ? tached to offices held by Americans be ? low what they can live on . On the other hand , ever since 1902 , the United States Treasury has been turning over as a free gift to the Philippine Treasury ( and legislature ) all moneys collected as U. S. Internal Revenues on Philippine products sold in the United States ? moneys that have amounted to about a million dollars a year . Under proper control in Washington , these moneys should be used directly to pay all salaries and to provide all facilities for the main ? tenance of all officials whom we see fit to put in the Philippines . Thus our offi ? cials there will be in no way beholden to the Philippine Legislature ; nor will whatever staff we choose to maintain there be a burden on the Philippine tax payer . Also the detailing of experts not only from the War Department but from all others , should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up in the Islands . Along somewhat similar lines at home the present Bureau of Insular Affairs , which has charge of the Philippines and Porto Rico , should be taken out of the War Department and a proper Office of Oversea s Territories should be organized , with a well-rounded staff , capable of handling all of the affairs of the Philip ? pines , Alaska , Hawaii , Samoa , Guam , Porto Rico , the Virgin Island and , per ? haps , the Panama Canal Zone . Only by such centralized control of all our overseas territories can we develop a staff competent to give to each the ex ? pert management to which each and all are entitled ; and only thus can we centralize responsibility for each and all . It is regrettable that while we looked on the Philippines only as a temporary field for altruistic social and political effort , we paid so little attention to them that the present truly " intoler ? able " situation developed there . On the other hand , it is very encouraging that now that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a source of tropical products essential to us , Con ? congress consequently is awakening to the situation and has provided for periodic visits to the Islands by a Congressional committee . The more Congressmen go to the Philippines and travel the wide world the better . But would it not be logical to expect more comprehensively constructive results from a thorough study and examination , by an open-minded and non-partisan commission , of British , Dutch , and French colonial methods in India , Ceylon , Malaya , the Netherlands East Indies , and French Indo-China ? The results of such a survey , brought home to a proper Office of Overseas Territories , adequately supported by Congress , might well inaugurate a new era in colonial government . Inevitably , we shall be more and more dependent on overseas trade and colonial matters . The quicker we interest ourselves in them and become colonially minded the better it will be for all concerned .                     