@@430150

The fundamental difference between the Occidental man and his brother of the Orient is psychological . Try as they may , it is impossible for them to think quite alike . Divergent mental processes stand in the way of complete mutual understanding . A wide gulf separates the man who naturally gives expression to even his most imaginative thoughts in direct if not prosaic diction , from him who is wont to clothe his ideas , ordinary as well as other , in picturesque and symbolical imagery . Nor is this all . The difference is more than one of language merely : it is also the thought relation to the accumulated beliefs , traditions , and customs of the respective races . To the difficulty of bridging the chasm we have the testimony of Lafcadio Hearn , who still felt himself an alien at heart after fourteen years of intimate association with and close study of the Japanese people , ? years during which he identified himself with them in every possible way . Because of this difference , and because the art of a people is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture , it has long been realized that comprehensive interpretation of the content of Japanese art is beyond the capacity of any foreigner . In making this statement it is necessary to guard against misconception . The art of the Orient is not to be judged by a standard different from that which we should apply in considering other art . As to its zesthetic value , it speaks for itself . In this respect art is a universal language . There is not one philosophy of art for the East and another for the West . The aim of the artist is everywhere the same . His impulse is creative ; his purpose is to give organic balance and internal beauty to an arrangement of lines , masses , light and dark , and color . The measure of the result as art is the power and skill and insight with which these elements have been handled . It does not depend upon accuracy of representation ; which belongs to the domain of science , nor upon any story- telling or preachment whatsoever . As to these and other extraneous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so dealt with as not to interfere with the aesthetic enjoyment of the spectator . But while the subject-matter with which artists have to do is only the vehicle for their aesthetic appeal , it necessarily brings into their work a host of associated ideas . And so , in considering the art of a people so widely removed from us as the Japanese , we feel the need to understand much more than the art itself as such . Attempts at interpretation have been many : some of them are more than creditable to their authors and of undoubted value as far as they go . But even in their measure of success they make it apparent that the authoritative utterance must emanate from one to the manner born . The more welcome , therefore , is the message conveyed in The Ideals of theEast , ' from the pen of one eminently qualified for the task . The author , Okakura Kakuzo ? to follow the Japanese custom of placing the family name first , ? is a distinguished scholar and connoisseur whose name is well known to every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to retain its ancient and distinctive characteristics , and not go down before the blighting onslaught of commercialism and foreign ideas , it will be due in no small degree to his efforts , and to the influence of the academy known as the Nippon Bijitsuin , of which he is the founder and President . The book in which Mr. Okakura has sketched the evolution of Asiatic art-ideals is written with a wealth of knowledge and penetrative insight that quite disarm the alien critic , who , lacking the broad range of information and intuitive comprehension of Oriental thought , can not hope to speak with a certainty equal to that of the author . Yet so widely does his reading of Indian , Chinese , and Japanese history vary from what we have hitherto conceived , that it is difficult to accept all that he says without question . How far , we ask , has he built on solid ground , and to what extent on mere fable ? His statements are put forth with such calm assurance that it may be he has had access to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ignorance . But the burden of proof , as the lawyers say , would seem to be upon him to show that there is not a large admixture of myth in the alleged facts upon which he bases his theory when dealing with the early history of the East . That , however , may be dismissed as a detail not necessarily affecting the force of the author 's argument , and the more readily when we consider the skill and accuracy with which he has handled the facts of the later periods . In his purview , Asia , the great Mother , is forever One . ' The transforming and unifying force , he shows us , was not so much Buddhism as Indian idealism , of which the religion of Gautama is but a phase , though the chief vehicle by which the culture was diffused . With comprehensive vision , Mr. Okakura traces its progress step by step , and has set it forth in a brief though clear and convincing summary . This occupies more than half of the book ; the rest is given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Japan viewed in relation thereto . In its larger aspect , Japanese art is thus seen to be the symbol and expression of all Asian culture , ? the mirror in which its soul is reflected . To prevent its debasement by the scorching drought of modern vulgarity ' is the cause to which Mr. Okakura 's talents have been devoted . But , as , he rightly says , it is to Asia herself that the appeal must be made . The outcome , to quote his final words , must be Victory from within , or a mighty death without . ' Every sentence in this remarkable and significant book is so charged with meaning that the reviewer is constantly tempted to linger over the separate statements , instead of keeping to the argument as a whole . Inviting , too , are the felicitous turns of phrase to be found upon every page , and the skill with which conceptions involving great difficulty in their verbal expression have been clearly set forth . The mastery of the English language which Mr. Okakura displays is indeed amazing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page ? Kakasu instead of Kakuzo ? it may be assumed that he is not responsible . It is possible that the reader not steeped in Oriental lore may find the book too compactly written , some of its statements too condensed and allusive for easy comprehension . The commentary , it is to be hoped , will be supplied by the same hand at no distant day , in the shape of a more extended and amply illustrated work upon the subject . The Awakening of Japan ' is marked by the same epigrammatic style and forceful utterance that characterize The Ideals of the East . ' Listen to the opening words : The sudden development of Japan has been more or less of an enigma to foreign observers . She is the country of flowers and ironclads , of dashing heroism and delicate tea-cups , ? the strange borderland where quaint shadows cross each other in the twilight of the New and the Old World . Until recently the West has never taken Japan seriously . It is amusing to find nowadays that such success as we have achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nations appears in the eyes of many as a menace to Christendom . In the mysterious , nothing is improbable . Exaggeration is the courtesy which fancy pays to the unknown . What sweeping condemnation , what absurd praise , has not the world lavished on New Japan ? We are both the cherished child of modern progress and a dread resurrection of heathendom ? the Yellow Peril itself !  | Were not the opinion so frequently expressed , it would be incredible that anyone should consider it possible for Japan to have reached her present stage of development in fifty years by a sudden emergence from a state of halfcivilization but little removed from barbarism . How different is the reality , Mr. Okakura shows in this impressive review of the causes that led to the downfall of the feudal system and fitted the people to assimilate and utilize extraneous knowledge when put within their reach . Before the awakening came from without , the national consciousness had already been stirred by the voice within , ? the tyranny of the Togugawa regime had nearly run its course . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his books is the preservation of Asiatic culture . With impassioned fervor he asks : If the guilty conscience of some European nations has conjured up the specter of a Yellow Peril , may not the suffering soul of Asia wail over the realities of the White Disaster ? ' And again : The venerable East still distinguishes between means and ends . The West is for progress , but progress toward what ? When material efficiency is complete , what end , asks Asia , will have been accomplished ? When the passion of fraternity has culminated in universal cooperation , what purpose is it to serve ? If mere self-interest , where do we find the boasted advance ? ' Where indeed ? Are not stocks and bonds better than art ? Is not the smoke of factory chimneys grateful to the nostrils of the truly enlightened man ? Is it not better to be an operative than to remain an independent producer ? Is not cheapness more desirable than quality ? That the West can ever accept the views of Eastern scholarship in regard to such matters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggressive nations have no conscience , ' and that In the West , international morality remains far below the standard to which individual morality has attained ? ' Notwithstanding the imminence of the White Peril , Mr. Okakura 's attitude is far from despondent . He finds a solid foundation for his hopes in the strength of the national spirit and - the revivals of ancient customs now in progress . But he is not happy in citing the names of Natsuo , Zesshin , Hogai , and Gaho , to prove that the art of old Japan still lives , for Zesshin and Hogai were gathered to their fathers ' some years ago . Fortunately , Gaho and Natsuo are not the only eminent men among living Japanese artists ; but in their effort to uphold - the glories and traditions of the past , they have to contend against the unfortunately contemptuous attitude which - the average Westerner assumes toward everything connected with Oriental civilization , ' which , as Mr. Okakura points out , tends to destroy the self-confidence of the Japanese in their canons of art . The menace is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies in the fact that Japanese art stands alone in the world , without immediate possibility of any accession or reinforcement from kindred ideal or technique . ' Yet to Western ideas as such , Mr. Okakura displays no aversion . Only as they tend to destroy the characteristic flavor of Asian culture do , they arouse his hostility . In other fields he bids them welcome , as , for example , the elevation of the social status of woman , which he warmly commends and asserts to be the elevation of the race . '  |                     