@@332950

Unbeknown to an unsuspecting public , Boy George 's drug troubles touched off a severe crisis in the journalese-speaking community . How should reporters and pundits , all fluent in journalese as well as English , refer to the suddenly woozy singer ? Naturally enough , conventions of the language demanded a hyphenated modifier . " Much-troubled " might have been acceptable , but that adjective is reserved , as are " oil-rich " and " war-torn , " for stories about the Middle East . One tabloid , apparently eager to dismiss the celebrity as a wanton hussy , called him " gender-confused pop star Boy George . " This was a clear violation of journalese 's " most-cherished tenet " : while doing in the rich and famous , never appear to be huffy . One magazine settled for " cross- dressing crooner , " and many newspapers temporarily abandoned the hyphenated tradition to label George " flamboyant , " a familiar journalese word meaning " kinky " or " one who does not have all of his or her paddles in the water . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meshing the disparate tongues of journalese and English . In journalese , for example , the word chilling is an omnibus adjective modifying " scenario " in nuclear-weapons stories , " evidence " and " reminder " in crime stories and " effect " in any story on threats to the First Amendment . In English it is merely something one does with white wine . Reforms and changes can only be " sweeping " and investigations " widening , " especially on days when the investigators have no actual news to report . " Mounting " is always followed by pressures or deficits . All arrays are " bewildering , " whereas all contrasts are either " striking " or , if the story is weak , " startling . " <P> Many sociologists have speculated ( widely , of course ) about the love affair between journalese-users and hyphenated modifiers . The gist of all this cerebration seems to be that readers can not stand the shock of an unmodified noun , at least on first reference . Thus we have Libyan-sponsored terrorism , Ping-Pong diplomacy , debt-laden Brazil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " financially-troubled " and " financially-plagued , " which can fairly be used to describe most Latin American nations , many banks and the United States Football League . The Syrian-backed P.L.O. , an earlier hyphenated champion , had to be retired when the Syrian backers began shooting at the P.L.O . backs . Any dictator who leaves his homeland hastily , with or without his bullion and wife 's shoe collection , is not fleeing in disgrace , merely heading into self-imposed exile .                     