@@290550

A THEFT FROM YOUR GOVERNMENT IS A THEFT FROM YOU . So read the stern red-and-white warning signs put up by federal officials on thousands of abandoned homes across the U.S. The signs are meant to discourage vandals , but in fact the houses themselves have all too frequently been used and discarded in a loan-fraud scheme that costs the Federal Housing Administration-and U.S. taxpayers-dearly . Last week the Department of Housing and Urban Development , which oversees FHA operations , estimated that since 1968 the Government has lost $1.4 billion on the foreclosure and resale of homes originally bought with FHA-backed loans . <P> When the FHA was created in the depths of the Depression in 1934 , its mission was to stimulate the moribund residential-construction industry by guaranteeing Government repayment of loans made to home buyers . For the next three decades , the agency pursued a conservative policy of backing mortgages almost exclusively in low-risk , middle and a few high-income neighborhoods . But during the late 1960s , after fiery rioting erupted in the ghettos of many U.S. cities , FHA 'S policy changed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress in 1968 , authorized the agency to help poorly housed low-income families by insuring and in some cases subsidizing their mortgages and rents . The result was a sharp increase in FHA loan activity that did help the urban poor but also attracted the attention of unscrupulous real estate brokers , building contractors and mortgage bankers . <P> Over the past four years , major scandals involving FHA loans have been uncovered in 20 cities across the U.S. The latest is Chicago , where the Tribune recently turned up dozens of cases of mortgage shenanigans that have cost the Government millions of dollars . Often , real estate dealers would lure a low-income family into buying a ghetto house , perhaps by putting up part of the down payment . The company would then secure FHA insurance for the mortgage on the house , typically based on an unrealistically high appraisal that inattentive FHA officials did not question . After the financially strapped tenant let the house fall apart and moved out , the mortgage company would foreclose . It would then collect a fat check from the agency in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a house that could be resold only at a heavy loss . <P> Task Force . In the Chicago area , where the number of Government-repossessed houses has risen from a few hundred in the late ' 60s to 3,300 at present , foreclosures occur seven times more frequently on FHA-insured mortgages than on conventional mortgages . Upset by the Tribune 's revelations , Mayor Richard Daley persuaded the FHA to cancel an auction of 700 foreclosed houses scheduled for last month while a federal-city task force inspects them to determine their fitness for habitation . The local U.S. Attorney is investigating allegations against six mortgage lenders for mortgage-insurance fraud .                     