@@469650

A ENEMY of the Administration is on the air . Over a network of stations each of which exists only by virtue of a license from the Federal government , and free of charge if he happens to be a Senator or Congressman , he denounces the personnel and methods of that government , berates its leaders as cheats or fools , and even , if he so chooses , bespatters the President with invective . He and his kind have done this before , and will do it again ; the substance of their speeches was familiar long before it was scheduled . is radio censored ? A single broadcast of the sort which Huey Long , for example , frequently delivered would seem to postulate a convincing negative . Certainly in no country where an admitted censorship exists would anything of the sort have been tolerated . Nor do such men speak through any instigation of the broadcasters ; as a rule they bring neither credit nor cash , neither audience nor business . And yet Senator Long , their most outstanding exemplar , was able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , within reason , as he cared to ask for it , and to say whatever he liked without even complying with the supposedly fixed requirement of submitting a script in advance . " Hell , no , " said the Senator to me on one occasion , " I do n't write out my speeches . I make ' em up as I go along . I 'll show you my notes , though " ? and with that he produced a Bible . Certainly no censorship there , within any ordinary acceptation of the term . Nor , despite all the loose talk about it , has there ever been authentic evidence of one single instance , under this or any previous Administration , wherein anyone connected with the Federal government has ever interfered to prevent any opposition speaker from being heard or to restrict him in whatever he has chosen to say . A year ago , under a special provision of the law , the Broadcast Division of the new Federal Communications Commission held a widely publicized hearing , lasting more than five weeks , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receiving fair treatment in the use of radio . in a record covering more than fourteen thousand pages , there is not a single line that even suggests the existence of censorship by or on behalf of the Administration . No Republican protested that he had in any way suffered from discrimination in the allocation of radio time or had ever received the slightest intimation from any source that criticism of the controlling party might be unwelcome . No Socialist or Communist came forward to complain ; instead , representatives of nearly every significant political and social group testified that they had freely used the facilities of the radio stations and networks , and had been encouraged to say whatever they desired , even to the extent in some instances of attacking the commercial practices of the very advertisers whose business was maintaining the facilities thus used . The record before the Communications Commission conclusively supported that of the hearings held seven months earlier by a committee of the House of Representatives on a bill proposing to outlaw discrimination by radio stations . Here too , although denunciation of Administration propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partisan censorship was even suggested . Since these two hearings received extensive advance publicity , since their importance was fully recognized by everyone concerned in radio operation , and since all the testimony is a matter of public record , it is fair to infer that the striking lack of all evidence of Administration censorship can mean only that no such evidence existed . Here is a typical instance . When get abroad ? Why does every " wellinformed " Administration-hater still insist that nobody can discuss politics over the radio , or at any rate could do so until recently , without first securing an official " O.K. " and presumably having his speech edited at the White House ? Many of the stories which gave rise to this myth were in their origins merely absurd . For months it was part of my work to trace them down , and almost invariably their genesis turned out to have been wholly foreign to the one ascribed by gossip . Here is a typical instance . When Congress assembled in January , DM , the customary arrangements were made for broadcasting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on behalf of one of the broadcasting companies . In addition to the program from the floor of the House , we arranged to have Senators and Congressmen speak through microphones in rooms adjacent to the two chambers . We had punctiliously invited in advance equal delegations of Democrats and Republicans , with a couple of Farmer-Laborites to complete the picture . All went apparently without a hitch , and , listening to the entire broadcast over a receiving set , I felt that we had given a convincing demonstration of radio 's impartiality . One of the high points of the program was a speech by Senator David A. Reed , in which there was vigorous criticism of the Administration . When he had finished , the radio carried the announcer 's query whether there was anything more he might like to say , to which he replied , " I do n't believe so , thank you . " Imagine , then , my bewilderment when , a few days later , a call from Senator Reed 's office accused us of having deliberately cut the Senator off the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Emphatic denial met the rebuttal that telegrams from the listeners were there to prove it . They were too ? clear , indisputable , damning . All of them , however , came from one section of a single State , and a telephone call revealed the cause . The station taking the network service in that region , licensed , as are many , to operate only part time , had to shut down daily at one o'clock , giving way to a State educational institution sharing the same frequency . It was about two seconds before one when Senator Reed got to " President Roosevelt " ? and off went that unhappy station . And yet for weeks the unexplained story was current in Washington as clear proof of radio 's subservience . Most , though not quite all , of the tales of cutting off anti-administration speakers , of editing their talks , or of refusing facilities for them , were equally apocryphal . In the first three or four months of the New Deal ? I can vouch for this from experience ? it was almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course there was a deluge of Administration broadcasting ? the President himself , Cabinet members , new leaders in Congress ? but there was never any denial of network facilities to the opposition , or the slightest intimation from anyone in authority that such refusal would be approved . The general attitude was expressed by a minority Senator on my urgent invitation to discuss the banking measures . " No , " he said , " I 'd rather wait till I can do it without being suspected of high treason . " If the Republicans were radio-mute in those early days , they had largely themselves to thank for it . In a few instances , however , partly in the hope of currying favor , and partly misled by an excess of zeal based on the oft-repeated statement that we were in the midst of an emergency comparable to that of war , individual stations did in those first few months of the New Deal refuse facilities to its critics . For such action they had absolutely no warrant in any statement emanating , directly or indirectly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frame of mind prevalent in the spring and early summer of 1933 can readily understand how such errors of judgment occurred . The first excitement passed , and with it all tendency to withhold criticism from the air . As we shall presently note , however , certain conditions that encouraged these few blunders still exist , and must be carefully weighed in answering any general question as to the existence of radio censorship . II " Censorship , " after all , is among those convenient words that can mean about as much or as little as one chooses . Like " freedom of speech , " to which it is commonly antithetical , it is relative rather than absolute . There is no such thing as complete freedom of speech If I choose to go out on the street-corner and there shout blasphemous , indecent , or insulting remarks at the passers-by the police will very properly take charge of me , and it will need more than an eloquent plea of the right of free speech to get me off . If I proclaim that Mr. Blank is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roundly for it . If I publicly advocate blowing up the Capitol , or massacring the Jews , or lynching a murderer , I shall promptly find that speech is free only in a Pickwickian sense . Society , for its own protection , and from a sense of general decency , actually does circumscribe speech or publication of any kind , and holds , furthermore , that whoever knowingly assists in any forbidden utterance , whether oral or in print , is jointly guilty with the originator thereof . If we agree , as I think we must , that the operation of the ordinary laws covering such matters as defamation , obscenity , treason , and instigation to crime does not abrogate the right of free speech , we dispose at once of any argument that restrictions of this sort constitute censorship . Even these legal limitations are , in their applications , by no means clearly defined ; what is damned as obscenity by one man is lauded as the purest art by another . But , by and large , we have a pretty fair idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at any rate for the moment , and within the limits thus established we can truthfully say that speech and the press remain free . Is radio broadcasting free within the same limits , and to the same extent ? Is there any form of control which applies to broadcasting but not to other forms of public utterance ? If there is , then there exists a censorship of broad-casting Before answering this question we should note that censorship can deal even more effectively with general conduct than with specific acts . When the Florentines burned Savonarola they did a complete job of censoring in advance all the things he might have said if he had been allowed to live . It is utterly preposterous to claim that it is censorship to strike out a sentence in an author 's book but not to confiscate the entire edition on publication . Such ex post facto censorship is by all odds the most rigorous kind , for it permits the accomplishment of an act and then destroys its results . It does this , as a rule , because the act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provably in direct violation of specific laws . A person who breaks a law can be punished as that law provides ; a person whose work or conduct is censored after the event is frequently not amenable to punishment through the &dinary; legal channels . The instant significance of this lies in the fact that ever since the passage of the Radio Act of 1927 there has been a ridiculous quibble over what does and what does not constitute censorship . The Federal Radio Commission , and its recent successor , the Federal Communications Commission , have clung to the position that as long as they do not in advance prohibit or edit specific broadcast material they are not violating the law , which expressly forbids all censorship of radio programs . Nobody contends that there has ever been any government radio censorship of this direct sort . The real question is this : is there as much freedom from restraint in the use of radio as in the use of the press , or of the human voice in public ? The answer is : No . Radio utterance is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms of publication , and to that extent radio is censored . To deny this , as the Communications Commission and thebroadcasters habitually do , is blindly to ignore manifest facts . The restrictions which constitute the censorship of broadcasting fall into two quite different categories . The first comprises the impositions of the government through its regulatory agency , the Federal Communications Commission , which has lately assumed the duties of the defunct Federal Radio Commission ; the second includes the limitations caused by conditions within the broadcasting industry itself . Both types revert to a single fact : the number of broadcasting stations which can operate simultaneously within an area as wide even as that of the United States is sharply limited by physical laws . Aware of this natural limitation , the Federal Radio Commission , at its inception in 1927 , was faced with the immediate problem of allocating the broadcasting facilities at its disposal . The law merely said that licenses should be issued " if public interest , convenience , or necessity will be served thereby . " If the new Commission had been writing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broadcasting stations in existence when the law was enacted , it would undoubtedly have taken this phrase to mean about what it signifies in various public utility regulatory acts ? the requirement of physical facilities . It would have authorized the erection of radio transmitters much as the Interstate Commerce Commission permits the construction of a new railroad track , on a showing of public need . Unfortunately , the Radio Commission was confronted with a fact , not a theory , the fact being the existence in full operation of over seven hundred stations ? some two or three hundred more than the maximum number stipulated by the technical experts . Each of these stations had acquired a certain presumptive right to continue ; it represented capital invested in good faith , had a license from the Department of Commerce , and claimed an already established good-will value . Some of the best stations ? the ones that had built the finest transmitters , installed the best studio equipment , and generally pioneered in the evolution of broadcasting ? were in States or cities badly overcrowded with radio facilities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them all out and start fresh . The members of the original Radio Commission ? I was one of them ? went through many searchings of heart in those first days . The formula we finally hit upon was , I now believe , a flagrant violation of the very law we were appointed to administer . We decided that in passing on all applications for renewal of license from existing stations we would take into account the type and quality of program service rendered . Thus , if two stations in one locality requested the same frequency , and it was shown in a hearing that one of them had rendered what seemed to us a consistently meritorious program service to the public as a whole , while the other had done little more than play phonograph records all day long , we would grant the first application and refuse the second . This looked fairly reasonable ? even now I do not know what else , under the circumstances , we could have done ? and " public interest , convenience , or necessity " seemed elastic enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all sincere in believing that we were doing exactly what Congress intended , and , by one of those chances that cast doubt on the omniscience of the legal profession , none of the attorneys who appeared before us in those early days raised the issue . Instead , they all meekly produced the program records of their clients , and helped us in every possible way to do the very thing which the law forbade us to do ? to exercisean indirect but effective censorship over radio programs . This method of dealing with applications for broadcasting licenses is still in effect ; more than that , it has been upheld by the courts as a proper exercise of the Commission 's authority . In the relatively few cases where renewal of license has been refused primarily because of the Commission 's objection to the character and quality of the programs broadcast , the courts have sustained the Commission 's action . This is not surprising ; the whole subject was practically without precedents , and the need for centralized regulation of radio was so obvious that the courts were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such case , involving the notorious " Rob " Shuler of Los Angeles , looked as if it might reallthe United States Supreme Court for a definitive ruling as to the limits , if any , of the Commission 's authority , but the Supreme Court refused to consider the appeal . As things now stand , the whole weight of custom and law is to the effect that the Commission , despite the express legal prohibition of censorship , may consider program quality and content in passing on applications for the renewal of broadcast licenses . Now see what this means . Licenses are issued for a maximum of six months , at the end of which period they must be renewed if the station is to continue in existence . Failure to renew means ruin , for without the license the physical property is practically worthless . Licensees are periodically cited to appear before the Commission to show cause why their applications for renewal should not be rejected , and in many instances they are specifically notified in the citations that the Commission has received complaints as to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge of having broken the law , or of having disregarded regulations formulated by the Commission itself . For such sins the law provides specific penalties in the form of fine or imprisonment following conviction in the courts . The Communications Act , except for the prohibition of government censorship , a clause forbidding the broadcast of profane , obscene , or indecent language , and a section dealing with the use of radio by political candidates , is mute as to programs , and the Commission 's multifarious regulations are almost exclusively concerned with physical operation and the filing of forms . These things are relatively comprehensible . If a station uses unauthorized power , varies from its frequency , exceeds its allotted time , or does any other of the hundred and one things that have become verbose &; the misdeed is a clear violation of theWdes , and is punishable as such . With regard to programs , however , the Commission has naturally been unable to follow any such orderly procedure . Instead , it has relied wholly on the vast power placed in its hands by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the law , which merely says that licenses shall be for not more than three years ? and wherever it has disliked a station 's programs it has threatened , not the penalties of the law , but the extra-legal pain of summary extinction . It has done this from the very beginning , and it is doing it to-day . The grotesque thing is that while a station owner can be fined ? relatively a minor penalty ? only for proved violation of the law or of a regulation of the Commission , he can be put completely out of business , and his property virtually confiscated , without having been convicted of violating any law or regulation at all . It is immaterial to argue , as the Commission speciously does , that in the only cases where this has actually happened the licensees werenotorious " bad actors , " devoting their broadcasts to defamation , obscenity , quackery ? the well-known instance of Dr. Brinkley and his goat glands ? that sort of thing . Admitting all this , admitting that the broadcasts complained of were manifestly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ punished by the equivalent of decapitation , not because they were convicted violators of the law , but because the Commission did not approve of their programs . And in no instance were their broadcasts more clearly antisocial than the activities of the publication which not so long ago achieved in the United States Supreme Court the overthrow of Minnesota 's " gag " law . I do not say that this is wrong . I do not say that broadcasting may not require some such form of special control . What I do say ? what must be patent to anybody who honestly considers the facts ? is that it constitutes censorship , and a very effective censorship at that . After all , the chief function of capital punishment is not to electrocute murderers , but to restrain people from committing murder by warning them of the results if they get caught at it . Just so with the Commission : it has actually refused to renew just enough licenses so that every time it sends out a notice that a station 's renewal application is set for hearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lamentable end to his radio career . The result ? the only possible result ? is that every broadcaster in the country lives in abject fear of what the Commission may do . Let him study the regulations ever so diligently ; how on earth can he know whether the Commission is going to like his programs ? III Let us consider a few specific instances . Shortly after the repeal of IS RADIO CENSORED ? 703 prohibition , the Radio Commission sent out a press release ? not an official order ? to the effect that while the advertising of liquor was now legal in most States , the Commission would be inclined to look with disfavor on indiscriminate liquor advertising by radio , and would consider each station 's record in this respect in passing on its application for license renewal . What did that mean ? Substantially , that a station might be entirely within its legal rights in broadcasting liquor advertising , but that it might subsequently he put nut of business for doing so . Possibly sound public policy ? I am not prepared to argue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere suggestion , when the fact of censorship is once established , was vividly shown in the case of a certain quasi-religious organization which had contracts for the commercial broadcast of its programs over a large number of stations . One of these programs was highly offensive to the Roman Catholic Church : and complaint was made to the Radio Commission . The Commission thereupon sent form letters to the stations indicated as having participated in this particular program , merely asking whether in fact they had broadcast it . Not a word in the letter implied blame or criticism ? and yet a considerable number of the stations involved promptly notified the sponsoring organization that they dared no longer accept its programs for fear of " getting in bad " with the Commission . The documents in this case are all a matter of public record . The Commission had done absolutely nothing for which it could justly be criticized ; it had merely requested some routine information ; and yet its power and practice of censorship were so obvious that the slightest hint was terrifying . Within the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trade Commission has for more than a year been proceeding very effectively against the broadcasting of fraudulent advertising , the Communications Commission cited a considerable number of stations , including some very prominent ones , to appear and show cause why their renewal applications should not be rejected , on the ground that they were broadcasting certain medicinal advertisements of which the Commission did not approve . Soon thereafter the Commission announced in na ? ve glee that most of these citations had been withdrawn because the stations had " voluntarily " discontinued the objectionable advertisements . Of course they had . The Commission may have been entirely right from the standpoint of public policy ; the sole point is that it was deliberately censoring radio programs by using its licensing power as a threat to obtaro results which presumably could not have been secured , or at any rate so rapidly , by orderly legal procedure . But we do not have to rely on outside evidence to prove the case . In July of this year the new chairman of the Communications Commission , former Congressman Anning S. Prall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Association of Broadcasters , completely let the cat out of the bag . Mr. Prall said in one breath that the Commission is expediting the work of eliminating programs " that seemed to be out of step with the requirements of law " and in the next that the Commission , " as you well know , can exercise no censorship whatever over programs . " No censorship ? and yet Mr. Prall specified the broadcasting of certain melodramatic programs for children as peculiarly objectionable , and this in the paragraph immediately following his proud announcement that " there are still some one hundred station citations pending involving programs . " No censorship ) But Mr. Prall went still farther . Since the short-term license is the obvious point at which the pressure of censorship is directed , he concluded his speech thus ; " It is my hope that when you convene again , one year hence , you will report the broadcasting industry without an exception as having attained the goal of clean programming . Having accomplished that purpose , you should then take up for consideration and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Could the English language be clearer than that ? What is the Commission 's definition of " clean " programs ? How is a station to know whether " Jack Armstrong " and " Little Orphan Annie " are in the good graces of Mr. Prall ? Not only is this censorship , with a definite promise of reward for complete subservience attached thereto , but it is the most pernicious kind of censorship ? a censorship based on personal tastes . Mr. Prall has set himself up as the Lord Chamberlain of American broadcasting . Many people ? perhaps most ? would agree that he is right in advocating a house-cleaning , but what he proposes is no remedy by specific regulation ; it is purely and simply an attempt to do indirectly the very thing that Mr. Prall declares the Commission has no legal right to do at all . Fancy such a suggestion delivered to the press ! Fancy a newspaper being told that although it might operate in full accordance with the laws , the continued publication of matter which some government official disapproved of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result in its being put out of business . Imagine a public speaker being told that if certain Federal authorities did not happen to like his speech , even though it violated no law , he might be denied the right ever to address an audience again . It is absolutely beside the point to claim that up to now the Commission 's powers of censorship have been used wholly in the public interest . Perhaps they have ; so , according to his adherents , have Hitler 's . The salient fact is that the Commission has those powers and uses them , and that the broadcasters are scared to death of them . It is true enough that the pressure has never been applied for political purposes , but plenty of broadcasters have thought , and with some reason , that it might be so used . Hence in part the attitude previously mentioned as characteristic of certain stations in the early days of the New Deal . It was never intimated , for instance . that every broadcaster should give the Alphabet Administrations all the time they wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to turn clown such requests ? afraid that any refusal might turn up as a black mark in the Commission 's judgmentbook ? Nor have their apprehensions been lightened by the fact that nearly all official communications from the Commission are signed by its secretary , the young man who was publicly designated by Postmaster General Farley as radio co-ordinator for the Democratic National Committee . I have shown how this system of censorship began , and plead guilty to having been one of those who , in all good faith , started it eight years ago . I do not know that its general effect so far has not been salutary rather than the reverse . I do know that those who claim that there is no government censorship of broadcast programs are either quibbling over a definition or else distressingly wanting in frankness . I know , furthermore ? and Mr. Prall 's speech is proof of it ? that the censorship is increasing rather than decreasing . Stations to-day are more subject to extra-legal threats for alleged sins in programming , and far more alarmed about future possibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they so seldom openly complain is quite understandable ; the Commission has all the good things of radio ? power , frequencies , time ? to give or to withhold . It is natural to fawn upon a Santa Claus who carries a formidable bludgeon in one hand . The United States Supreme Court has yet to rule whether the censorship provision of the Communications Act , carried over intact from the Radio Law of 1927 , means what it says . Some critics contend , as did Mr. David Lawrence in a recent editorial in the United States News , that the authority of the Commission is legally limited to physical and technical matters , and that any consideration whatsoever of programs , on no matter what pretense , lies outside its true powers . Such a strict definition of the law is the only possible way in which censorship can be eliminated . The moment the Commission goes beyond this ? the moment it takes program quality and content into account in passing on applications for renewal of license ? at that moment effective censorship begins . Longer licenses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or later the basic question will have to be answered . Then , if it is determined that radio is not entitled to that same measure of freedom which American tradition insists upon for other forms of public utterance , the law can be amended ? as the Lord Chancellor solved the fairies ' problem at the close of " lolanthe " ? by merely juggling one little negative . The clause , with the word " no " before " power " stricken out , will then read , " The Commission shall have power of censorship over programs " ? which is exactly what it has , and uses , to-day . IV This , however , is not the only variety of censorship to which broadcast utterances are subject . Keep in mind our definition ? that censorship is any limitation not applicable in like measure to those forms of publication which we regard as essentially free . Now let us consider the case of a person with some message the distribution of which he regards as important . Assuming that he has enough money or credit to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps not the one of his special choice , but one that will serve his purpose . In most communities he can make his speech free of charge in the open air . He can write out his message and send it to the newspapers ? to any or all of several newspapers ? and even if none of them will publish it , he can print it himself . There is , in other words , no inflexible limit to his chance of access to the public through speech or print . But even though he is willing and amply able to pay , he can by no means be sure that radio will be open to him . Broadcasting , from its very nature , is a doubly limited monopoly . It is restricted , first , by the technical requirement that there shall be no more than a certain number of stations ; second , by the hard fact that there are only so many hours in the day . Any community can enjoy as many newspapers as it is financially willing to support , and each one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any edition . Nowhere , except in rare instances , is it now possible to secure a construction permit for a new radio transmitter , and no station can by taking thought add a single hour to its effective operating schedule . The moving finger of the Radio Commission has written and moved on , and , as repeated frustrations have demonstrated , not all the piety or wit or bank . balances of new applicants have sufficed to change one word of the allocations thus written . The " S. R. 0 . " sign was hung out eight years ago , and now even the standingroom is gone . This means , of course , that radio time is ardently sought after ? though one would hardly think so when hearing how some of it is wasted ? and that , in consequence , each station manager becomes in practice a local censor of the first magnitude . Not a blue-pencil censor ? there is very little of that ? but one who bangs the door in the faces of all applicants of whom he does not approve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but because he must . He has only so many hours to deal out , and requests far in excess thereof . He has , furthermore , a definite responsibility to his station audience ; he has to protect it so far as he can against the plague of bores , cranks , quacks , and self-exploiters generally who are the bane of his daily existence . When in doubt he plays safe ; another dance band program may not add to his glory , but at least it will do him no immediate harm . A couple of years ago , at a Congressional hearing , I was caught unawares by a sharp-tongued Representative who wanted to know all about " radio censorship . " In self-defense I hastily coined the euphemism " editorial selection , " which sounded well enough , and suggested a pretty parallel between radio and the press . But the analogy breaks down in this , that whereas the editor who rejects a contribution does not thereby prevent its appearance in print , the station manager who declines to broadcast a speech probably keeps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even where there are several competing stations , they are all in the same boat as to time , and there is nothing in radio to parallel the job printing press . My " editorial selection , " there fore , as a disclaimer of managerial censorship was essentially just such a quibble as that of the Communications Commission when it says , " We ca n't censor your programs , but you 'll be sorry if you broadcast anything we do n't happen to like . " This type of censorship through exclusion seems to be inherent in the nature of broadcasting ; it exists everywhere , under government even more than under private management . In the United States it is of necessity particularly marked in connection with national program delivery . There are only two companies operating radio networks which cover substantially the entire country , and , needless to say , their time is at a premium . Since it has repeatedly been held by the courts that broadcasting is not and can not be a public utility , at least in any sense which would compel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a network or station is free to accept or reject programs as it chooses . Not even the President of the United States can legally command radio time , except in case of war or other proclaimed national emergency . So far as possible , both for their own protection and for the guidance of the public , both network companies have formulated and published statements of their general policy in the acceptance of programs , but inevitably there are numerous cases which conform to no set rule . For example , both chains give time , free of charge , when it is requested by members of Congress or other high officials of the Federal government , except during election campaign periods , when all time used by or on behalf of parties or candidates is sold at advertising rates . But what happens when a Senator or Congressman wants to talk every week or two or insists that he can not make his speech in less than an hour and a half ? No possible rules can cover all such cases , and they are not infrequent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robinson over N. R. A. , both networks were made miserable by repeated requests ? or , rather , demands ? for time , often with scant notice . The worst of it was that one could never be sure when the voluble General got fairly started that he would ever stop ; one of my stormiest days in Washington resulted from the literal execution of instructions that since a certain N. R. A. broadcast had been specifically requested for fifteen minutes only , the General was to be cut off at the end of that time , even if he was in the middle of a sentence . He was . If Federal officials , always appreciative of a coast-to-coast audience , present problems for harassed broadcasters to solve , private organizations and individuals are still more perplexing . Learned societies , religious bodies , philanthropies , charities , industrial and labor groups , women 's clubs , all the movements for the political and economic regeneration of the country , not to mention the countless individuals afflicted with messages to humanity at large , all want to get on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't . Yet the most elementary mathematics proves that there would not be enough network time for half of them even if every entertainment program were eliminated . " Editorial selection " is the only possible answer , but those against whom it operates have some justification for calling it censorship , since by it they are virtually debarred from any use of radio on a national scale , No matter what rules may be promulgated , the network executives of necessity wield an enormous discretionary power in their control of access to the national radio audience , and the rules themselves are little more than codified expressions of this power . This applies alike to free and to sold time . It used , for example , to be a common practice to sell time to religious organizations , which , in connection with their broadcast services , more or less discreetly invited contributions . This is how Father Coughlin first attained national fame . It soon became apparent that broadcasts of this kind might be made thoroughly profitable to the sponsors , and applications from religious groups for network @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn radio into an ecclesiastical Babel . There was nothing for it but to adopt the policy that no further time would be sold for religious programs of any sort , and that no appeals for contributions would be permitted . This effectually put an end to most of the large-scale commercialized radio religion , but the undaunted Father Coughlin found a way to beat the networks . Deprived of their facilities by the new ruling , he promptly made separate contracts with individual radio stations , leased the necessary connecting wires on his own responsibility , and thus created a once-a-week private network of his own . The cost has been tremendous , but nobody doubts that in one way or another Father Coughlin has found it worth while . His exploit has had no parallels , although one quasi-religious group has accomplished a remotely similar result , chiefly through the wide distribution of its recorded programs . In general . however , any person or organization desirous of reaching the national radio audience can do so only by permission of one or other of the two major network companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applications for network time are turned down , and that readiness to pay for a program by no means guarantees its acceptance . Whenever network facilities are made available without charge there is commonly little or no censorship of the ordinary kind , the policy of both companies being to select persons or groups of known discretion , and then to let them say pretty much whatever they choose . On this point the mass of evidence presented at the House and Commission hearings is conclusive ; if there had been any considerable use of the blue pencil , it would certainly have been indicated by some of the scores of witnesses . As for sponsored programs , there has been a perennial battle between the advertisers , eager for more trade exploitation , and the broadcasters ; but the adoption recently by the networks of more stringent rules regarding the character and quantity of advertising matter has been mutually beneficial . If , in many ways , the broadcasters seem unduly timid ? if they shy at the serious discussion of important controversial matters , particularly when they involve any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cheap vulgarity in programs of alleged entertainment , it must be remembered that a network , and also each individual station associated with it , may be held liable by the courts for any defamatory utterance it sends out , even though it may show that it had no possible way of knowing that such defamation was contemplated . Likewise , it is liable in the court of public opinion for anything that may be regarded as offensive ? and the radio audience is a very different matter from the more or less selected body of readers of any publication . This explains such an unfortunate episode as that of the scheduled broadcast last winter by Dr. Parran , Health Commissioner of New York , whose network speech was canceled at the last minute because he refused to delete several repetitions of the word ' syphilis . " Probably an error of judgment on the part of the network , and a clear case of censorship , but under standable to anyone familiar with the radio audience and its reactions . The fact that broadcasting is inherently a limited monopoly ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lays a heavy burden of social responsibility on the broadcasters , and particularly on the heads of the two major networks . The potential discretionary power today in the hands of Mr. Aylesworth and Mr. Paley , presidents of the two chain companies , is probably a good deal more than any two private individuals ought to have . That they have so far used it on the whole discreetly does not materially alter the case . The principal restraining influences are two : sensitiveness to public opinion , and , still more , the ever-present fear that the government may commandeer some or all of their facilities . But even with these restrictions , the opportunity for effective censorship through exclusion is very broad , and any such concentration of power in the hands of people who use it in connection with money-making has manifest dangers . These dangers are certainly not lessened by the fact that the networks and stations alike , as commercial undertakings , are solely dependent on advertising revenues . That , up to now , there has been singularly little complaint , or ground for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policies of the broadcasters is thoroughly creditable to both ; but the fact remains that every cent that goes to defray the cost of radio programs and facilities comes out of some advertiser 's pocket . The reader of a newspaper at least pays his two or three cents for it , and the newspaper publisher with a large paid circulation is emboldened thereby in an emergency to look his advertisers squarely in the eye . A radio station , despite repeated efforts to prove the contrary , has no such dependable measure of its acceptance by the public , nor do its listeners directly contribute a single penny toward its maintenance . So far the advertisers have commendably kept hands off , but their control of the pursestrings puts yet another load of social responsibility on the broadcaster 's shoulders . V Enough has been said ? and the incidents could be multiplied indefinitely ? to demonstrate that the only possible answer to the question " Is radio censored ? " is an unqualified " Yes . " It is censored by the Federal Communications Commission , despite the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible by the threat of refusal to renew licenses ; it is censored by the broadcasters themselves because , owing to the limitation of facilities , they can not do otherwise . The first type of censorship may or may not be publicly beneficial , but certainly it is not unavoidable . In view of the manifold abuses which may grow out of any extra-legal government activity of this sort , it would seem wiser , in the long run , for the Commission to stick to what is clearly its business ? the promulgation and enforcement of adequate radio traffic regulations ? and leave program censorship strictly alone . Violations of the laws governing public utterance can then adequately be dealt with in the case of radio exactly as in that of the newspapers or of ordinary addresses . A Commission which to-day openly disapproves of certain types of entertainment for children may to-morrow place its ban on expressions of minority opinion for their elders . As for the other kind of censorship , the kind exercised by the broadcasters themselves , there seems to he absolutely no way of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or time enough to accommodate everybody who wants to use them . Government operation , as in most foreign countries , is simply an exchange of King Log for King Stork , a last resort , to be considered only in the event of failure of the private companies to render acceptable service , and gross misuse of their powers of censorship by exclusion . The only answer is in a fuller recognition by the broadcasters and the public of the vast responsibility which the possession of such arbitrary power entails , and the replacement of such executives as see in radio simply a means for making money by persons with a truer sense of their obligations to society . Broadcasters have more authority than newspaper editors ; but no one familiar with the two groups would argue that in breadth of vision , in education , or in courageous adherence to ideals the two groups are as yet on a par . The American press has fought long and victoriously for freedom from censorship . It believes , and rightly , that a government-controlled press is a sure precursor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the press as a molder of public opinion . In most countries it has already lost even the simulacrum of liberty , and has become wholly subservient to whatever administration for the moment controls the machinery of government . In America such a possibility seems remote , but there are danger signals flying . And because the initial progress of any censorship is devious and furtive , concealing itself until it feels strong enough to emerge in the open , the worst feature of the present censorship is the denial that it exists . If we recognize it and call it by its true name , whether it is exercised by the government or by private individuals , we shall be better prepared to deal with it when , as will one day surely happen , it stands between the American people and freedom . 