@@470250

AS I write this , no one can say whether or not Hitler will carry Germany to war . Up to now he has had no need to : he has gained everything he wanted , either by simply taking it or by having it handed to him . But now things have plainly entered a new stadium . Britain has set up a sign " Thus Far and No Farther . " This attempt to halt Hitler , which if made two or three years ago , or even last year , might have been unchallengeable , seems to-day to carry within itself a double danger of war . Either Hitler , confident in the strategic position handed to him in folly at Munich , may take it too lightly and overstep the mark , only to find that Britain means business after all ; or he may take it so seriously as to feel that he must strike now , before the chain is forged round him . Whether Hitler should stumble into war or choose it boldly , there seems no doubt but that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible . This would mean trying out that theory of a " lightning war " with which the Germans and Italians have toyed for so long , that " knockout blow " by air and swift mechanized follow-up by land which is the legitimate successor to the famous Schlieffen Plan for a six-weeks victory over France in 1914 , and the unrestricted submarine campaign of 1917 which was to bring Britain to her knees in three months ? but instead brought America into the War . Hider himself has said , " When I strike it will be like lightning in the night . " Goering broadcast to his fliers in March , " You men know best how Germany 's unconquerable air force stood ready then ( last September ) . One command , and a Hades , an Inferno , would have been prepared for our opponents , a quick blow , but one which would have utterly destroyed them . " Probably Hitler himself does not know whether he will finally choose this desperate gamble . There is no real evidence , either from the World War , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long struggle , or from the Chinese or Spanish Wars , that such an onslaught could bring a quick and decisive victory . But there is , unfortunately , evidence a-plenty that delusive beliefs in perfect plans , quick victories , weak or decadent opponents , and unconquerable German might ? delusions which have already played a disastrous part in German . history ? still persist in the Reich . And consideration of the new German forces reveals strikingly to what extent the Nazis have concentrated their energy on those arms which would be counted on to win a quick war : the airplane , the tank , and the submarine , at the expense of the standard arms which decide a long conflict , the men on the ground and the ships on the sea , and a healthy economy and spirit behind them . This being the case , the menace presented by the lightning war must be grappled with . An interesting pattern for such an attack has emerged lately ; to begin with an overwhelming aerial blow against the British and French Navies and their strategic bases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the British Charg ? d'Affaires in Berlin took the rumors he heard seriously enough to warn the Admiralty in London , and the latter to order the fleet 's anti-aircraft defenses permanently manned ; and it can hardly have been mere coincidence that the German fleet should at the same time have steamed out to Atlantic waters and the U. S. Navy been suddenly ordered back to the Pacific . In any case it will serve well enough as an example . All the air power of Germany and Italy , and possibly Japan , was to strike at the various concentrations of the British and French Navies , and particularly at the larger ships , at Portsmouth , Toulon , Gibraltar , Malta , Bizerta , and elsewhere , in an attempt to smash this one arm in which the Entente Powers have a decisive superiority . The German and Italian fleets , now outnumbered by almost four to one , would then count . The oceans would be delivered over to their commerce raiders and submarines , which would proceed to cut France off from her North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from obtaining overseas supplies or supporting their threatened possessions , and Britain from sending a large army to aid France . After the navies had been taken care of , the lightning would be turned against the British and French aerodromes , to gain complete domination of the air ; against their communications , to dislocate mobilization ; against power stations and arms factories , to disrupt their munitions supply ; and against the great centers of population , to smash civilian morale . This " knockout blow " by air would be swiftly followed by attack on France , possibly from several directions , with all the German-Italian armored and motorized land forces , which would then be secured from detection or destruction from the air . ( I couple Germany and Italy together to make out the worst possible case , and because Mussolini appears to be becoming more and more subservient to Hitler in policy . But it is not entirely certain that the Duce could carry his people into a war with Germany and against Britain and France , or still more , keep them in it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out by bombing from the air ? A bomber-battleship controversy raged for years in Britain after the War . Some experts claimed that the development of air power would restrict the usefulness of the battleship in future wars to patrolling the high seas . It would be impossible for it to approach a hostile coast or operate in narrow seas like the North Sea , the Baltic , and the Mediterranean , defended by airplanes based on land . As late as 1935 this opinion ruled at the Admiralty , and in the Ethiopian crisis the British Mediterranean fleet was hastily moved from Malta , and the threat of bombing raids from nearby Sicily , to distant Alexandria . This defeatist attitude is now long in the past . Britain has laid down a great new program of battleships and the Mediterranean Fleet has returned in force to Malta . Those who claimed all along that defense against the bomber could and would be developed to keep pace with the threat are having their day . Formidable anti-aircraft defenses have been devised , and new and old British battleships have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and destroyers have been equipped as special anti-aircraft auxiliaries . With no less than 14 aircraft carriers soon to be available , the Navy will be able to carry along a sizeable air force of its own . In face of this , and with all chance of surprise gone , it seems incredible that so many British and French ships could be sunk in a sudden attack as to raise Germany and Italy from their present posidon of hopeless inferiority ( 6 battleships to 24 , and all together three-quarters of a million tons to two and a quarter millions ) to one of superiority . If the Axis Powers made the experiment only to find out afterward that they were wrong and that sea power still plays its traditional role in warfare , then their naval position would be desperate indeed . The union of their two fleets , conjectured when the German Navy moved to Spanish waters in April , would change nothing . A more plausible explanation of the move would be that the Germans are prepared to throw away their three " pocket battleships " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anglo-French forces scattered and especially to prevent them from striking a hammer blow at Italy until the issue has been decided by bomber , tank , and submarine . This would jibe well with the mentality directing German policy to-day . If the German-Italian reliance on the bomber against the battleship may be explained in part by their inability to compete in building the latter , how explain their reliance on the submarine , so plainly expressed in the numbers theyare building ? Here is a good instance of one of those nameless terrors which seem to be all about us to-day , and which the dictators play up for all they are worth to frighten us into preferring peace at any price , but which can be in large part dispelled if one only comes to grips with them . In the three months following their declaration of unrestricted submarine warfare on February 1 , 1917 , the Germans sent to the bottom without warning over 1,000 British , Allied , and neutral ships . Yet by the end of the year courage and ingenuity had so completely reversed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words in his World Crisis , " it was they who were hunted and their crews who were demoralized . " The introduction of the convoy system , rejected for years because of the argument that it would only give the submarines a better mark for their torpedoes ( whereas in practice it gave them far fewer marks to shoot at ) , was the beginning . By October , 1917 , over 1,500 merchant ships had been brought into the British Isles , with the loss of only 10 torpedoed while in convoy and 14 lost through straying . Another effective defense , and the one which accounted for the most U-boats , was the deep mine barrage . One of these , maintained across the Dover Straits and supported by destroyer patrols dashing back and forth from the British coast to the French , with their searchlights blazing by night and flares burning " until it was as bright as Piccadilly " ( to force the subs to dive into the mines ) effectively closed this shortcut to the Channel and Atlantic shipping routes . A barrage laid and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the German High Seas Fleet , gave the Germans so much trouble that they finally had to route their homecoming submarines through the Kattegat . A barrage was then laid , on American initiative , and largely with American mines and effort , clear across from the Norwegian coast to the Orkneys , being completed just as the Armistice came . Along with these passive defenses , an extremely active campaign for hunting , detecting , and " killing " prowling U-boats was developed , including the use of hydrophones , depth-charges , air-bombing , the gunfire of destroyers and armed merchantmen , stalking by submarines , and the famous camouflaged " Q-boats " which finally broke the morale of the submarine crews and forced them to stay under and use an expensive torpedo , of which they could carry only a small number , instead of a cheap shell or bomb . In all , 199 U-boats were destroyed , and long before Armistice time the terrorist had become the terrified . If the " next " war is only to take up where the last one left off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British preparations for submarine-hunting , recently revealed to the Commons , the most unhealthy place of all is going to be underneath the water . III The chief element in all modern quick-war plans is the " knockout blow " by air . " Give me 20,000 airplanes and I 'll be master of Europe in a week ! " Goering boasted in 1934 . And Germany has built , by a truly immense effort ? how many planes ? Not , at feast , the 20,000 that Goering wanted ; for the Nazis themselves , masters of the scare technic , have never claimed more than 10,000 . Not even , I venture , these 10,000 so assiduously propagandized during the Sudeten crisis . For if the Nazis had had 10,000 planes at that time it seems amazing that they should have been so anxious right afterward to get the British to limit their 2,000-odd air force to 35 per cent of the German strength , or 3,500 ! French and American experts estimated at the time of Munich that Germany had between 3,500 and 4,000 planes organized in first-line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 500-600 a month . Consideringloss through crashes , requirements for training , and obsolescence , Hanson W. Baldwin , military correspondent of the New York Times , reckoned that such a production would allow a net increase in the first-line force of 1,500-2,000 a year . Allowing for some increase in production in the meantime , a fair estimate of German air strength to-day would seem to be between 5,500 and 6,000 planes . The combined British and French forces would approximate very closely to this , but if the Italian strength is added to the German the totalitarian powers have a superiority of about three to two . This German-Italian superiority , according to a reliable person close to the British Air Ministry , is due to reach and pass its peak sometime this summer . After that the Entente Powers , which already have a combined production of over 700 planes a month and appear determined to continue the race if necessary until they are back at their November , 1918 , production of 5,000 planes a month , will gradually overhaul and pass their Axis opponents . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to strike must strike soon . If they should act in concert , what chance is there that they could get home a " knockout blow " against Britain and France under present conditions ? I have sketched the genial plan , named after the Italian Douhet , who claims that a war can be won in the air by paralyzing at a blow all of the enemy 's nerve centers . Taking Britain and France together , and with German-Italian superiority only three to two , that is a big order . In the first place , complete surprise ? an extremely important element in the plan ? is quite impossible to achieve in a Europe which has lived through years of Hitler 's Saturday surprises and is so nervous that even Switzerland and Holland are semi-mobilized all the time . Besides , it would be necessary for such an aerial blow to be accompanied with an attack in full force on land to consolidate the victory , and in practice the most secret mobilizations of Hitler and Mussolini , those against Czechoslovakia in May , 1938 , and February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1939 , have always become known beforehand . Then , in the hour of decision the Douhet Plan would probably be watered down , as the famous Schlieffen Plan for the sweep through Belgium was in 1914 . The Germans and Italians would hesitate to put every ounce of their air strength into the blow , but would hold some back to ward off possible Anglo-French retaliation , or attacks from Poland , Russia , Yugoslavia , Roumania , or Turkey . Nor does one of the chief assumptions of the plan ? that an enemy can be driven entirely out of the air ? appear to be justified by any experience up to date . One can gain superiority , but never complete domination , as on the sea ; as Major Eliot puts it in If War Comes , the air stretches too far up and too far across for that . In the Spanish War the Loyalists were always at a disadvantage in point of numbers , but always managed TO put up a few fighters to worry the Insurgents ' bombers ; while in China the Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? according to the Japanese ? but always seems to spring up again . The ferocious Douhet theory has already had one large-scale try-out , in that Spanish War which was so cynically employed by the German and Italian military people as a " testing-ground " for their new ideas and equipment . This was at Barcelona in March , 1938 . On the 16th of that month ( i.e. , five days after Hitler 's sudden grab of Austria ) the Italian air force based on Majorca began a bombardment which was kept up , at first with two-hour intervals and later slightly longer , for three days and nights . The planes maintained a height of 15,000 to 20,000 feet , and dropped their bombs quite indiscriminately over the city . Great bombs of half a ton were used , to penetrate the Underground Railway shelters ; time bombs , which pierced houses from attic to cellar and then exploded and brought the wholething down ; small impact bombs , in clusters ; and in particular , a new type of thin-shelled , low-bursting bomb with great lateral explosive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to Herbert L. Matthews of the New Turk Times , " surely the most savage and most ruthless punishment any modern city has taken . " The city was swollen with refugees to a population of nearly two millions , and so poorly defended that the raiders could come in broad daylight . What was the effect ? Thirteen hundred people were killed . The power station continued to operate , street-cars to run , and movie theaters to remain open and find audiences . " As in Madrid in November , 1936 , " said the London Times correspondent , " the bombs utterly failed to produce submission . Whether they have had any secret effect remains to be seen ; but it would seem that chastisement alone of a proud and courageous race can have no definite result . . . . There is anguish and terror , but no panic . " Chastisement alone could not produce the submission of Barcelona . The Nationalist ground troops had to fight their way step by step for nearly another year to conquer the city . They had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it be any different with London and Paris , Liverpool and Lyons , Glasgow and Marseilles ? London and Paris might seem at first thought to present bigger and more vulnerable targets . But they are infinitely better defended than Barcelona , which was approachable without warning from the sea and had wholly inadequate fighter and anti-aircraft protection . They have farfiung listening posts ? Paris 's on the French frontiers and London 's on the Belgian and the Dutch borders , out in the North Sea , and all along the English coast ? to give the fighter craft warning to get into the air . These fighters , on the British side at least , include the finest and fastest types in the world , the Hurricane , Spitfire , and Defiant . Both cities have balloon barrages as a haz rd for the raiders . They have subways and other air-raid shelters , and plans for quick evacuation of children and aged . They have the protection of powerful anti-aircraft fire , which , it may be noted , has shown such a remarkable development since Great War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of five of the planes brought down then , the records of the Spanish War show that it was responsible for four out of five . The populations of London and Paris have had a chance to become morally " rearmed " since the big scare of September , 1938 . They will not be chastised as severely as the Barcelonans or succumb more readily . Finally , Germany and Italy can not send " myriads " of planes to bomb London and Paris day after day , as well as British and French railway centers , naval bases , power-houses , aerodromes , factories , and what-not , and at the same time bomb the Poles and the Russians and the Roumanians , and possibly the Turks and the Yugoslays and the Czechs . For , as Lincoln would surely put it if he lived to-day , " You ca n't bomb all of the people all of the time , " and if Germany and Italy attempted any such prolonged offensive they would find themselves without an air force in about two weeks . To maintain a force of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France produced that many a month ; the German-Italian air fleet of 7,000-8,000 planes is backed by a monthly production of certainly less than a thousand units , and it is doubtful if the totalitarian countries could maintain this , much less increase it , in the condition of their supplies . IV To follow up the aerial knockout blow and consolidate the victory , the final component envisaged in the lightning-war theory is a sweeping attack by land , led by tanks and motorized artillery and infantry . The obvious object of such an attack by the Axis Powersin the west would be the overrunning of France and the wiping out of the French Army . If one were to consider that Germany could count on the full military co-operation of Italy and Spain and could really bring to bear the superiority in numbers indicated by a simple addition of their population figures , then France 's position would be perilous indeed . The odds would be four to one against her , and attack could be made simultaneously on the Catalonian and Savoy frontiers , to close France 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to round up and destroy her main armies . Fortunately , France 's position improves on critical examination . General Franco , it is true , still has half a million or more men under arms ; but it is hard to believe that he could launch them on a foreign adventure with millions of such bitter and recently subjugated enemies at home . Italy counts , in the mass , forty-five million people ; but their equipment , industrial backing , and fighting quality are such that for our purposes they may be reckoned at about half that number . This reduces the odds to two and a half to one . But because " they who make many afraid of them have themselves many to fear , " Germany and Italy would have to divide forces over many fronts . Italy already has five armies overseas , in Ethiopia , Libya , Spain , Albania , and the Dodecanese Islands ? five hostages to fortune , from the British point of view . Germany has twelve neighbors , if one counts Britain on the North Sea and Sweden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been given cause to fear her . She would have to keep considerable forces facing the east and south-east , sparing hardly more than three-fifths , say , of her forces for attack in the west . This brings the odds down to less than two to one , against France alone ? and that could only be for a very short time . But it is reckoned that a superiority of at least four to one is needed to-day to prevail over a well-armed , fresh , and spirited defense . If one rules out the Pyrenees front , except possibly for air action and a minor diversion by land ; and the Savoy front , because the Alpine passes diverge as they enter France and leave the invading forces open to destruction in detail ( so that all history does not show an example of successful conquest of France from Italy , but many of conquest over the convergent passes in the opposite direction ) ; and if one rules out also a direct assault on the Maginot Line one is left with the choice between the routes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany strong advantages , but equally strong disadvantages . The Lowlands route is the shortest line between the center of German supply and communications in the Ruhr , and Paris . It offers good terrain for a motorized sweep , and access to the Flanders coast , from which to threaten Britain . The attack could avoid the Belgian " Maginot Line " by passing through Dutch Limburg ; and in that extremely interesting book The Berlin Diaries an anonymous General in the Reichswehr Ministry reveals that Hider himself approached their office and also President Hindenburg with such a plan in 1932 . On the other hand , the Lowlands route was tried Iast time , and failed . Belgian resistance might again give the British time to reach the scene , and British resistance time for the French to mobilize all their reserves . If Holland were violated Dutch resistance would have to be faced as well and possibly an English landing in Friesland , in the German rear . Nor could Italy be brought into such a plan effectively . The German military people , as I can personally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reich 's military fortunes to those of Italy . But if Hitler has come to consider Italy as a necessary extension of his front against the west which , if it could be anchored in Tunisia , would effectively shut out Britain and France from supporting the Balkan Powers and clear the road for Germany right down to the Persian Gulf , then the military authorities will be overruled again . In that case they will at least want to use the Italian forces where they can stiffen them with German troops . The logical location for a common offensive by the two armies against France would be Switzerland , and it is known that a German-Italian staff plan for such a concerted attack , from the neighborhood of Berne and Basle , has existed since 1901 . The aim of this drive would be to outflank the Maginot defenses and the powerful fortress of Belfort , take the main French armies in the rear , and deal a blow at the industrial heart of France . The seizure of the Gotthard and Simplon doubletrack lines would be a vital part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study of European railway strategy in Danubian Destiny . But the Swiss , whose citizen soldiers sleep with their rifles , ammunition , and uniforms at their bedsides and are all assigned to their posts , might blow up the tunnels and otherwise disrupt the plan at the last moment . And even if the armies were quickly assembled round Soleure and Lausanne , they would have to pass into France through defiles in the Jura Mountains , hardly favorable to a swift massed attack by motorized vehicles . All in all , however , this remains the most likely place for a common German-Italian offensive . No less than five German armored divisions and two Italian , counting at least 3,500 tanks , with accompanying motorized artillery and infantry , would be available for the drive . Now here is the swift land war-machine of the future , which German experts calculate will smash through enemy territory , given good roads and good weather , at the rate of 90-100 miles a day . In the lack of all supporting evidence it is hard to take this estimate seriously . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Eastern Europe , if the fuel supply and repair organization could keep pace ? except that roads are scarce and bad in Eastern Europe , under which conditions the German experts presuppose only an advance of 25 miles a day . It is unthinkable that daily advances of 100 miles a day are achievable in Belgium , Switzerland , or France . In the Spanish War an Italian motorized division was going to " dash " the 40 or 50 miles from Guadalajara to Madrid , over the opposition of half-trained militiamen . The result was that the tanks outdistanced their supporting infantry , who were strung out in trucks along the roads , and the whole force was badly strafed from the air and thrown back in confusion . After that , armored attacks in Spain returned to the World War practice of strictly limited objectives of 5 or 10 miles a day , with heavy artillery preparation and strong support from the air , and infantry and supply services following up the weary , hungry , and ill-supplied Catalonian Army , at the average rate of 20 miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better against fresh , well-supplied French troops bolstered by strong defenses ? They have , as I said , seven armored divisions between them , totaling 3,500-odd tanks . To win a " quick victory " over the war-weary German forces " as early as possible in 1919 " Winston Churchill , as British Minister of Munitions , made preparations to produce and use 15,000 tanks of all sizes , and 10,000 cross-country troop-carriers , the latter to be built by Ford . The Allied command did n't plan to build these thousands of costly machines for show , but because they knew how a fleet of tanks melted away in the face of shell-fire , land-mines , and heavy machine-gun fire . In a French offensive on July 18 , 1918 , described by Major Eliot in If War Comes , 324 light and heavy tanks were to be used . Only 225 got into action , of which 102 were destroyed in the first day 's attack . On the second day 108 tanks started and 50were hit , and on the third day only 32 were available , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack , if there had been one , would have seen about a dozen out of the original 324 tanks go into action and three or four come out . Similarly , at Cambrai in 1917 , out of 476 tanks which the British mustered for a surprise attack , only 150 were available to meet a counter-attack ten days later . Since World War days many and ingenious defenses against the tank have been devised . Among the passive defenses are rows of up-ended steel rails set in concrete ? " asparagus beds " the French call them ; marshy pits covered with grass , in which the tank sinks and drowns ; mines under roadways and in front of fortified areas , which may be set off either by contact or by electrical remote control ; trenches 8 or 10 feet wide which leave the tank straddled helplessly ; and slimy , flooded fields which stop it entirely . Those tanks which survive these hazards must face the active defenses behind , chief among which are the field guns and the new high-velocity anti-tank rifles . During one attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30 French tanks before it could be located and put out of action . All together , field-guns accounted for 95 per cent of the British tank losses . Alongside these , the modern defense has the lighter anti-tank gun . These are mounted in concrete pill-boxes along roads of approach or in the front line of trenches , and require artillery fire to destroy them , which robs the tank of the chance of surprise attack . Spare antitank guns may be kept in dugouts below during the artillery preparation and brought up in time to meet the assault . When all else fails there are cruder defenses , such as necessity developed in the Spanish War : gasoline-soaked straw laid in the path of the approaching tanks , ignited by the heat of the exhaust ; a combination of a bottle of gasoline and a hand-grenade dropped inside by men daring enough to scramble up on the backs of the unwieldy and half-blind monsters ; and plain dynamite , with which one dauntless Asturian destroyed no less than 8 Italian tanks in an afternoon . If tanks could gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defenses and no more against Spanish Loyalist defenses , if they fall out even in peace-time reviews , as I have seen them do before the Ffihrer and the Duce in Berlin , and are left all along the road in a parade to Vienna , they are not going to overrun France suddenly against the Belgian , Swiss , and French defenses of to-day . We may take it that the 3,000-odd German-Italian tanks would fade away in the defiles of the Jura and the spurs of the Vosges or before the canals of Flanders just as the 3,000-odd British and French tanks did in the battles of 1916-17-18 . The impetus of the attack would be lost , the great initial supply of equipment would be squandered , all hope of a quick victory would vanish , and the war would settle down to a matter of trenches and machine-guns on land and blockade at sea . V How would the totalitarian powers fare in such a war of attrition ? They would fare very badly , and no one will admit that more readily than Germans and Italians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German Ambassador at Constantinople said to the American Minister : " If we are not in Paris within forty days we have lost the war , " it is much more true to-day . German and Italian strength would be quickly sapped by the enormous cost of the offensive , which the very nature of their regimes would force them to take and sustain . Stronger at the beginning than Britain and France , because they are permanently mobilized , Germany and Italy would have little reserve of spirit or material to call upon and would steadily grow weaker , while Britain and France would grow stronger as they mobilized all the great resources of their empires . Italy could not last long . A poor country , she is strained to the breaking point to maintain the pretensions of a Great Power in peace-time . With no domestic iron , oil , or coal resources , and only about as much industrial power as pre-Munich Czechoslovakia , she has few of the sinews of modern war . Much of her war energy and much of her materials have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the 80 per cent of her supplies which normally reach her through the Mediterranean , she would he left entirely dependent on Germany . How long would it be before her people , who have now been under the strain of " living dangerously " for sixteen years and the sacrifice of actual warfare for nearly four , lost their stomach for the struggle and forced the government to sue for a separate peace ? Germany of course is a different proposition . The world is hardly likely to underrate her fighting power after the show she put up in 1914-18 . It might be more inclined to overrate it . Let us for a moment compare the Germany of to-day with the Germany that went to war in August , 1914 . That Germany had an army polished and perfected for decades until it was a gleaming precision instrument . Every ablebodied male in the country was a trained member of it . Its cadres of officers were complete from top to bottom , so that 100 first-class divisions could be placed in the field at once , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long-determined strategic plan to cover a war on both western and eastern fronts , with a magnificent railway system tailored to measure and the staff work prepared down to the last detail . It rode high on a tradition of victory over the chief military powers of Europe . Supporting this great land force , Imperial Germany had a navy large enough to protect her coasts , to raid enemy commerce on the seven seas , and present a real challenge in battle to such forces as Britain could maintain in the North Sea . Behind this war machine and supplying it when war broke out was a blooming economy , large stocks of raw materials , a steel production ( together with Austria-Hungary 's ) greater than that of Britain , France , and Russia combined and based on domestic ores , a flourishing foreign trade , large investments and many warm supporters and suppliers in neutral countries abroad , and a billion-dollar golden war chest . The population on the whole accepted the war with enthusiasm , confident in an early and glorious victory . Fresh and well-fed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of terrific strain . Hitler 's Germany is so much more ferocious and frightening than Wilhelm 's that it is not apparent at first sight how much weaker it really is ? for actual warfare , that is . ( For the kind of banditry it has been practicing it is immensely strong . ) The army is short of officers of every rank , but particularly majors , lieutenant-colonels , and colonels . Lieutenants and captains have been made out of the corporals and sergeants of the post-War professional Reichswehr , but it has proved quite impossible to build up the magnificent cadres and staff organization of the 1914 army in six short years . Many of the reserves have had only a hasty six-weeks training and behind them lie the 17 annual classes between 24 and 41 years of age , largely untrained . Nor is the same bulk of man-power available for service , despite the acquisition of Austria and Sudetenland : the German authorities estimate that , on account of the greater industrial demands of modern warfare , they will be able to put only about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last time . When we look at the navy we see that , in place of imperial Germany 's redoubtable fleet of dreadnoughts , Nazi Germany could muster just two battleships , the 20,000-ton Scharnhorst and Gneisenau . ( At least they were launched long ago and supposed to be in commission bynow , although remarkably little has been heard of them . ) The 35,000-ton Bismarck and Von Tirpitz launched this spring will not be finished until next year at the earliest . The 10,000-ton " pocket battleships " of the Deutschland class really rank as cruisers , though because they carry heavier guns than the 10,000-ton Washington Treaty cruisers which could catch them , and are faster than the big battleships which could blow them out of the water , they would take some running down as commerce raiders . VI But more important in a long war than the men and ships on the fighting front are the economic strength , the spirit , and the endurance of the home front . The economic and psychological situation in Germany to-day is more like that of 1917 than 1914 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for years , with neither rest for the one nor replacement for the other . The State Railways has had to curtail its services and in its latest annual report declares that at least 10 per cent of its rolling stock needs immediate renewal . In a long study on January 22nd of this year the Frankfurter Zeitung found the state of Germany 's industrial plant to be such that a full year 's output of the German machine industry would be needed to carry out the necessary replacement . As a result of the long strain man-hour production has fallen of generally throughout the Reich . In the Ruhr coal industry , for instance , again according to the Frankfurter Zeitung , this decline amounted to no less than 12 per cent between February , 1936 , and April , 1938 . Not only the productivity but the supply of labor is an acute problem , and Germany is now pressing small shopkeepers , dispossessed Jews , and conquered Czechs into manual labor service . Scientists and engineers arc short on account of emigration of the middle-aged and preference of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official . A decline in registration of 50 to 60 per cent at the universities and engineering colleges teaches that one can not at the same time scorn the intellect and exalt the body , and build a super-scientific , self-contained state . The raw-material situation is particularly reminiscent of 1917 . Good materials have been short for so long that reserves have already been combed out of every corner in the country ; the iron fence railings of Berlin have been melted down these many months past . Substitutes of all kinds have been explored , but these have their limits , imposed not by relative money cost , which the Nazis entirely ignore , but by the amount of imported raw materials required to build the installations and the labor to run them . Can Germany , facing the industrial man-power of France , Britain , the British Dominions , Russia , and possibly the United States , afford to divert half a million men ? fifteen army corps as would be necessary to make only the substitute gasoline and oil she requires for a major war ? It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into Danubia at Munich rendered her largely " blockade-proof " in a future war . Aside from the fact that many vital materials such as nickel , rubber , cotton , and wool are not to be had in the Danubian region , the 100 million people who live between the Axis and the Soviet frontier are not going to be willing slaves of the Reich . It seems extremely doubtful if the kind of empire which the Nazis have in mind , the rule of a master race over inferiors , can be imposed on the fervid nationalities of this part of the world . Hitler lacks the idea which could weld them together ; his doctrine of hatred , anti-Semitism , and a great land-winning crusade against Soviet Russia may suffice to break up Eastern Europe , but never to unite it . The only way Germany could really make sure during wartime of the supplies of food , oil , bauxite ( for aluminum ) , and the small quantities of other thingswhich Danubia could provide her , would be to garrison the whole region . She had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , results which by no means compensated for the diversion of half a million troops , and even poorer in Roumania , the Roumanians blowing up the oil wells before handing them over . Unless she would run the risk of having this happen again , Germany must get her hands securely on the wells before war breaks out . Even so , and supposing that she got every drop of their production , the Roumanian oil fields could supply only about a third of Germany 's war needs . Their production , now running about 6j million tons a year , has fallen off rapidly lately in spite of the drilling of new wells , the decrease amounting to 18 per cent in 1937 and a further 8 per cent in 1938 . Then , strategic domination of Danubia in no way affects Germany 's supply of that most vital of all war materials : iron . It is not sufficiently recognized that the iron mines which carried Germany through the last war lie behind the Maginot Line in France to-day . The only other source which would be adequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be available to her is in Swedish Lapland . Her armament industry is in fact based to-day on this rich Swedish ore , which provides almost half of her consumption while , in spite of strenuous and costly development her domestic ores , of very low quality , cover only one-fifth . During the last war Sweden sold Germany ore and other supplies ? as long as Germany had gold or goods to pay for them ; when it came down to promises , business fell off rapidly . Promises are all Germany could offer to-day . Her financial condition , as much as any aspect of the home front , is reminiscent of 1917-18 . Except for a possible secret hoard , which can not be very large , she has already used up all her gold ; and she has already liquidated her foreign investments , plundered the Jews , sucked dry the savings banks and insurance companies , the unemploymeat insurance and the old-age pension funds , largely exhausted the country 's long-term and short-term lending power , and is now living on future tax returns . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron , or any other imports from neutrals ? if there are any neutrals next time . Will the Swedes sell their iron to Germany if she ca n't pay and Britain can ? If not , could Germany seize and operate the distant mines ? How much of the world can Germany take on at one time ? VII But the greatest of the Nazis ' worries on the home front in a future war would , I think , be neither machines nor supplies . It would be the morale of the population . It is not for nothing that the regime maintains an elaborate secret police system and the ever-present threat of the concentration camp , that it opens mail and listens in on telephone conversations and , above all , plans to keep the Black Guard at home in wartime . The German people of to-day are not the confident , cheerful , well-fed nation of 1914 . There may be millions of young men raised in the Nazi school , healthy and willing enough , to fill out the first armies at the front . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at home is a people who have been through such a succession of disasters : the defeat in the last war , starvation , occupation , inflation , the world depression , unemployment , the Hitler Revolution , and the war crises which have followed it , that they arc harassed , uncertain , really mentally sick . Together with that , millions of them hate the regime bitterly for smashing their political parties , for breaking their trade unions , their housing co-operatives , and their sports clubs , for persecuting their priests and pastors , and for degrading the German name in the world through their assault on the Jews , the burning of the books , and the destruction of the universities and general cultural life of the country . This is not a healthy population to carry into a war to the death , or into any war but one of absolute self-defense . Nazi propaganda is often credited with being devilishly clever , but Hitler and Goebbels have made many mistakes , and more Germans than you might imagine know perfectly well where the real " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raving , are to be found . Last fall , for instance , elated that they had made Germany the most feared country in the world , the Nazis were unable to refrain from boasting that the head of the great British world empire was forced to come to them to beg for peace . " Who , then , " many Germans who had been living in terror for weeks asked themselves , " was threatening war ? " Their question was soon answered when Goebbels boasted in a broadcast that " by threatening war we avoided war . " Those threats , that nerve-racking war crisis , cost Hitler the confidence of many Germans who , while heartily disliking their local Nazi Party leader and his Storm Troop toughs , yet had believed in the Fiihrer and trusted him to get what he was after without war , as he had always promised . Another instance , which illustrates how propaganda can cut two ways , is the great scare campaign about enemy air raids put on in 1933-34 to justify the building of a big German air force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and on billboards drawings of flaming German cities darkened by myriad enemy bombers , and met in their main streets and squares huge up-ended dummy bombs . The fear of air raids which Hitler planted in his people then came home to plague him last year , when months of furious propaganda about the " terrorization " of three million German " brothers " in neighboring Sudetenland failed to rouse them to war fever but only left them quaking . They watched the troops march of to the front in silence , but rushed to the aerodromes to cheer Chamberlain . A final mistake was in revealing to the German people the full extent of anti-Nazi feeling in the United States . At the back of every grown-up German 's mind , when he thinks of war in the west , is the memory of that great transfusion of blood and resources which flooded over from America to defeat his country just as she was straining her utmost last time . For all the talk about the decadence of France and Britain , which he might like to believe , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he knows that diplomatic relations between Germany and the United States have been all but broken off even before it has started . Can Hitler , who possesses such strong mediumistic qualities and has so consciously exploited the fear and hatred of war in other peoples to obtain his victories , be unaware of this mood among his own people which makes it dangerous for him to carry them into any war which they might so much as suspect was not thrust on them ? Considering this mood and his raw material situation , the weakness and uncertainty of his allies , and the multitude of his enemies , one might well say that go to war is the one thing Hitler ca n't do . So far he has always drawn back before an actual threat of war : from Italy in July , 1934 ; France in January , 1937 ( over landing troops in Spanish Morocco ) ; and Czechoslovakia in May , 1938 , and carefully limited his grabs to weak or defenseless countries . The elaborate fortifications on the Rhine , placed under a separate military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action in the east and place on France and Britain the onus of starting war in the west . The chance for a " knockout blow " against Britain and France , if it ever existed , has slipped past with the development of their air power and defenses . The shadow of the United States grows bigger and darker in one direction while the enigma of Soviet Russia persists in the other . Italy is hardly the partner with whom Germany would engage in a struggle for very life and death . Taking all these factors together , it would seem that Hitler intended to continue to pursue limited objectives in Eastern Europe , while exploiting the nuisance value of Italy and Spain in the Mediterranean to the full , for a while yet before putting his fortunes to the supreme test in open war against France and Britain . Intends ? yes , Hitler may intend to avoid war in the west until he has consolidated the east . But he also once intended to win Britain as an ally or friend , to avoid naval or colonial rivalry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pre-War errors of making enemies of the whole world , and thus ensure Germany 's extermination . "                     