@@431450

She Fought for the Children By Albert Q. Maisel IF SIX-YEAR-OLD Ronnie Reisman had not fallen to his death upon the hard asphalt of his school playground three years ago , Ione Swan might still be the peppery principal of Los Angeles ' Wilshire-Crest School . Instead , Mrs. Swan ? who fought to save other kids from similar needless tragedies ? has been fired for her efforts , after decades of praise and promotion . Though she lost her job , this stormy petrel has won every other battle , so far , in her war against the betrayal of a great city 's school children . Today , five of the seven School Board members whose official conduct Mrs. Swan attacked have either resigned , been defeated for re-election or removed from office by the courts . Of the remaining two , one awaits trial on a Grand jury accusation of corruption and the other will soon face a jury on a three-count criminal indictment . Ione Swan 's fight for her children started 30 years ago when , as instructor at a school for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dingy walls were adorned only by gaping cracks , its windows opaque with grime . At the noon recess , indignant Ione stormed into her principal 's office , only to be told that there was no money to improve conditions . Ione did n't need money . She sailed her astonished pupils into the project . Within a week there were neatly laundered curtains and windowboxes full of geraniums . Across the largest plaster cracks the children placed pictures they had painted themselves . Baskets filled with ivy and flowers hung from the ceiling . Six months later Mrs. Swan was  | called to the superintendent 's office . " We 're planning a new Development School in San Pedro , " she was told . " How would you like to be principal ' " The astonished lone managed to nod assent . But later , as she listened to the architect 's plans for the new building , she became alarmed . For what he planned was a grim , jaillike building . Love for children replacing caution , she sounded off . After 45 minutes the architect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said . " We know what you wo n't have . What do you want ' " The dream school turned out to be a building with oversized classrooms , and without stairs to harass the handicapped . Its broad windows looked out upon acres of gardens . Desks were no longer fixed in rigid rows . lone Swan 's idea ? a school from which no child would want to play hooky became the prototype for hundreds of one-story cottage schools . For eight happy years Mrs. Swan innovated and improvised in schools for the retarded . Then she was promoted to the principalship of a large school for normal children . Her joy in her advancement was soured by the discovery that instructors were expected to teach 40 or more children and that the teachers were being constantly rated and ruled and regulated by the educational foremen above them who , in many cases , never entered a classroom . Endless paper work made it almost impossible for even the best of teachers to find time to teach properly . Fear of the administrative hierarchy haunted many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being rebelled , and gradually she developed a reputation as a courageous lighter against red tape and injustice . Teachers , principals and even headquarters employes began bringing her cases of maladministration and outright corruption among the top clogs of the Los Angeles schools . As long as she could , Tone fought her battle for Los Angeles ' children inside the school system . Then an event occurred which forced her to enlist public support . Like most schoolyards in Los Angeles , the playground of the Wilshire-Crest School was paved with black-top asphalt an ever-present threat of injury to every scampering child . ' hhe accident rate among Los Angeles school children was alarming . Year after year insurance companies raised the premiums on School Board liability policies . The board and top administrators knew thc shocking facts . But the public was left uninformed . " Then , just before Christmas in 1948 , six-year-old Jeffrey Stern fell from a playground slide . He was carried unconscious into Principal Swan 's office with a fractured skull . For two dreadful weeks he hovered between life and death . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the executive committee of the Wilshire-Crest PTA and told them Jeffrey 's story . She pointed  | out that hundreds of children were in similar danger every day . The PTA parents wrote to School Superintendent A. J. Stoddard , politely requesting that sand pits be placed under playground apparatus . Dr. Stoddard promised an investigation , but no visible action followed . In March 1949 another six -- year-old , Ronnie Reisman , fell on the asphalt surface of the WilshireCrest playground and died of the injury . Blazing with indignation , the parents sent delegations to the School Board . Their ire rose still further when it was revealed that a safety engineer 's report , written even before the Stern child had been injured , had recommended the immediate replacement of black top by sand under all playground apparatus . This report , completed at a cost of $5000 , had never been made public . Now the board grudgingly consented to put in " experimental " sand pits and rubber mats at this single playground . Meanwhile , nearly 200,000 elementary-school children continued to use more than 300 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accidents ? and uncounted scrapes and bruises ? every school day . Several Los Angeles newspapers joined the black-top battle , and the Daily News assigned one reporter to a full-time investigation of other School Board scandals . The exposure of a plan to rig examinations for jobs as school phone operators brought the Grand Jury into the picture . Ione Swan agreed to testify before it . At the end of January 1951 She walked into the jury room and burned her bridges behind her . After condemning the board 's black-top program , she told of evil-smelling pans of meat shipped to her school from the Food Center the board had established to achieve " efficiency and economy . " She revealed that school cafeterias were being charged 72 cents a pound for ground meat that was selling for 55 cents on the open market , and she quoted warehouse instructions ordering Food Center employes to adulterate the hamburger with suet . In February and May the jury investigated Mrs. Swan 's charge that board chairman Roy J. Becker and the husband of board member Gertrude HI . Rounsavelle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a firm which enjoyed an all-but-total monopoly of the schoolbus contracts voted by the board . Meanwhile , the School Board axe fell on Thomas J. Fitzpatrick , Food Center employe who had backed up Mrs. Swan 's exposure of meat adulteration . Two weeks later Mrs. Swan was summarily fired from the principal 's position that she had held so long , on charges ranging from " unprofessional conduct " to " dishonesty . " As Ione Swan stepped down from her post she declared : " The betrayal of the children has been so appalling that when the facts are made public this board will be  | thrown out of education . " Then she set out to make her prophecy come true . She had only two and a half months before the next School Board election in which to awaken the citizens of Los Angeles and force the defeat of the incumbent board members whose jobs were at stake . But now Ione Swan was no longer fighting alone . Committees of irate parents had sprung up all over town , and the Grand Jury 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May io the jury voted formal accusations of " willful and corrupt misconduct in office " against Becker and Mrs. Rounsavelle . The next day , as if to emphasize that corruption was not the only issue , six-year-old Larry Caster fell from a swing to the black top and died of a fractured skull . With election only two weeks off , the board hastily suspended the use of play equipment all over the city . lone Swan now decided to use television and the radio to reach the thousands who usually let their school vote go by default . With her salary stopped , she had no money to pay the $628 it would cost , but on faith alone she signed the contract . The night before election she broadcast her story , with no mention of money . " There was too much else , far more important , to tell , " she explains . But hundreds of citizens sensed her need and mailed her oneand five-dollar bills totaling $623 . She knew then that she did n't have to worry about the election . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. Larrabee , who had never been accused of personal misconduct but merely attacked as a nonprotesting member of the board , was defeated by more than 64,000 votes . Mrs. Rounsavelle ran 121,000 votes behind her opponent and resigned a few days later . By removing herself from office before her term expired she ended the need for a trial on the Grand Jury 's misconduct accusation . Board chairman Roy Becker was tried a few months later in Superior Court , found guilty of misconduct and removed from office . Two others , Mrs. Eleanor B. Allen and Earle D. Baker , voluntarily removed themselves . J. Paul Elliott and Olin J. Darby , two remaining members of the group that fired Mrs. Swan , were still in office but awaiting trial when this article was written . Elliott was accused of misconduct by the Grand Jury for having an allegedly illegal interest in companies holding school-bus contracts . Darbv was charged with felony by the Grand Jury for voting for a $90,000 ice-cream contract , despite the fact that he was the favored firm 's landlord . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ printing contracts to a firm for which he was landlord . ) There are many in Los Angeles ready to hail Ione Swan as the complete victor . They point out that thanks to her display of courage the chastened School Board has voided the monopoly bus contracts and now gets service at rates that save more than half a million dollars a year . The board has also cleaned up its centralized kitchens . Most important of all , more than 300 asphalt-paved playgrounds have been rebuilt and made safe . Mrs. Swan , however , discourages all complacent talk . She asks why administrative costs have skyrocketed by 290 percent while teachers ' salaries have dropped from 72 percent of the school budget in 1944 to barely 63 percent today . She points to the $2,200,000 office building and 548-car garage which the School Board erected on the site of her old Hill Street School , and contrasts the luxurious , paneled offices provided for board members with the basement classrooms and temporary shacks to which too many teachers and children are consigned . " More supervisors , secretaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher pupil load for the classroom teacher . " Mrs. Swan is keeping up a running court struggle over her dismissal , as one means of holding the basic issues before the public . Whether she gets her principal 's job back or not is not important . " If I had been concerned only with my job , " she told me , " I would never have taken the stand . But unless we care enough about the children to put their welfare above salary and security , none of us is worth saving . The real battle is for more and better teachers , free from the sort of intimidation that drove me out of the schools , free to spend all their time working for the children . "                     