@@486250

For some months past there has been a sporadic demand that Congress should prevent the exportation of foodstuffs . It has been obviously and inevitably a reflex of the rapidly rising prices of the necessaries of life . Numerous petitions , it is stated , have been prepared for presentation in Congress , praying that an embargo may be laid . The movement has been scattered and not very authoritative ; but now the subject receives importance , though no great dignity , from the public announcement of the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee of the House of Representatives . Mr. Fitzgerald declares not merely that he favors an embargo , but that he will introduce and press vigorously a bill to authorize and enforce it . It will soon be time , therefore , for a discussion of the whole matter . Concerning one underlying general principle , there can be little dispute . If the selling of food abroad were to leave the United States bare and famished , the duty of the Government would be plain . It could not see its own citizens brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation would dictate that its own people be guarded against want and misery . But that the danger of that has as yet become anything like acute , there is no evidence . The supply of wheat and flour is the nearest to a question of emergency . Due as well to a short harvest as to foreign buying , on top of the locking up of Russian wheat , the price of bread has mounted and may go higher . But it is doubtful if anything that could be done now would relieve the stringency before the next harvest . Moreover , the difficult situation is being met in a variety of ways . Many substitutions can be made in the food used . Besides , the needs of the working classes are getting recognition in the general increases of wages , already high beyond precedent . No one can truly say that a food-crisis is actually confronting the country . It may come , and it may be necessary to take measures to meet it , but it is not at present an exigency requiring extreme forms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is evident that he is far from having thought them through . He mixes up two things that should be kept separate . He argues that our people should be kept from privation and suffering on account of a scant food supply , but in the same breath he contends that an embargo would be a fit measure of retaliation against England for her blacklist and other offences . But each ofthese matters should be left to stand on its own bottom . If a food embargo means enlightened self-interest , let it be put on that ground . But if we are going about the business of retaliation against Great Britain , that should be attended to by itself  --  and there are more effective steps that could be taken than the cutting off of food exports . The fact is that to neither of the appeals which Mr. Fitzgerald makes will he get any popular response , at present . There is no general desire in this country to do anything which would look like taking sides against England and her allies in this war . And it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agricultural regions of the United States , there would be stout opposition to an embargo limited to foodstuffs . Let it be seriously pressed , and Mr. Fitzgerald will be sure to hear something to his disadvantage from the embattled farmers of the land . They will argue that if others are entitled to their swollen war-profits , so are they . And they will insist that if an embargo is to be laid at all , it ought to cover the whole line of exports . They will ask Mr. Fitzgerald why , if he is so anxious to strike back at Great Britain , he does not propose to forbid exports  --  we will not say of munitions of war , pure and simple  --  but of steel and machinery and copper and oil and the raw materials of manufacture . Many other questions would be raised , upon which Mr. Fitzgerald has not thus far thrown any light . Would he make his embargo absolute or only partial ? If the intention is to shut off American foodstuffs from Great Britain alone , or possibly France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freely to neutrals  --  say , Spain or South America  --  what is to prevent the wicked English from buying our products in other markets ? Then there is the matter of contracts already made with American exporters . Would Mr. Fitzgerald impair their obligation ? Would he prevent the shipment of food to the starving Belgians ? No one can stop for as long as ten minutes to think about an embargo without seeing that it is an immensely complicated subject . It ought not to be attacked by any haphazard legislator off-hand . And we are confident that the more it is discussed the slower will Congress be to act . An embargo merely on food would arouse huge resentment among the agricultural classes  --  a resentment which , under the circumstances as they exist to-day , would be justified . And the other considerations to which we have barely alluded make it highly probable that Congress will not follow Mr. Fitzgerald , unless the whole food-situation rapidly and radically changes for the worse . GERMANY AFTER THE WAR . The latest seer to prophesy just what will happen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is a sport in which anybody may qualify , whether he be a Harvard professor , a Wyoming star-gazer , or even an editor . When the world is in a cataclysm the outcome of which no man can foresee , anybody 's guess is as worth while as anybody else 's . Those who realize the magnitude of what is going on , and the fact that the world is being irresistibly swept on to its fate , whatever that may be , by the terrible forces which have been set in motion , are careful not to attempt to forecast the future save to say what is indisputable  --  that the world can never return to the old order , and that , in the belligerent countries at least , the existing order will undergo a vast change . But Professor Francke sees far more deeply than that , if the press reports of his leeture are correct . He beholds a greater and nobler Germany  --  speed the day ! ? arising out of the purifying sacrifices of the war , with great and progressive changes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status of women , all as the result of the frightful bloodshed it is now witnessing . The Kaiser , he reports , on the strength of a private letter from one who recently spent an evening with him , as a changed man , who is rapidly becoming the greatest of reformers , the keenest to see that vast changes are needed even in this nation of super-efficient supermen . By some magic , the old rift between the army caste and the civilians is to be ended ; the bureaucracy is to be as expert and as honest as ever , but not as autocratic nor as remote from the people as before , while Junker and Social-Democrat are to be brought together as never hitherto  --  all because the fighting millions will return from battleship and trench " with a heightened sense of what citizenship implies and what is the people 's due . " This is indeed a lovely picture for anybody to draw , and Professor Francke evidently enjoyed to the full the painting of it . But , alas ! it appears that after all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overnight . It is to come as a result of great national strife . For Professor Francke admits that every war , successful or otherwise , " has the tendency to increase the demands of the advocates of militarism and of class rule . " Serious clashes of opinion among the various classes therefore appear inevitable in the near future . But Dr. Francke is pretty certain that this struggle will not have the same virulence and bitterness which have marked it in the past . The comradeship of the war is supposed to have put an end to that , so that there will merely be pleasant joustings , and then the reformation will have been achieved . Plainly , Professor Francke is on firmer ground here , for there are historic precedents to fall back upon . Peace usually does bring with it a period of reaction and turmoil , with , as he suggests , the vested interests strengthening their hold . But there is little in the past to show that the inevitable class struggles after this war will be of a milder type than heretofore . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minute that the firing ceases . Particularly will this be true of the German military . If one should speculate at all , it would seem as if the military caste would come out of the struggle stronger than ever , and more than ever insistent that it must dominate the country 's life . Professor Francke senses this and , assuming as he does that German arms will either win a victory or achieve a deadlock , fears that there will be a demand for greater preparedness . He even foresees the enrolling of civilians , men and women , in a new sort of reserve prepared to serve the state . He hopes , of course , that this lurch into further militarism will be held in check , but he does not see any hope for it in disarmament unless Germany receives pledges which he thinks nobody can give . But if this is to be the case , how is Germany going to profit by the war ? Her military will , of course , assert that by their prowess they have saved the country from destruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Germany does become more militaristic or even remains as much so as before the war , her Kultur and her national ideals are going to spread throughout the world and more than ever conquer other nations in the realm of ideas , seems utterly preposterous . In that case Germany will indefinitely be regarded as a menace , and the whole of the civilized world will watch her with suspicion and distrust . Her ideas and ideals will everywhere encounter the firmest resistance . If we , too , may do some guessing , we should not expect to see the slightest gain to the nation from that exaltation of feeling and united action which has made the German nation in arms both so remarkable and so formidable . There is more humbug talkedabout the purifying processes of war than about anything else . Certainly , one can not find in the progress of events in England to date anything that suggests that that nation is undergoing a new birth . Many of the liberties of her citizens have been throttled , so much so that it is questionable whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , unless there is disarmament , there is every danger that the nation will be conquered by the ideals of the German militarists , and itself become militaristic to the extent of its means . On every hand reaction is in full tide . The child-labor laws have been broken down , the hours of labor lengthened , while the feverish prosperity of the war does infinite harm to the wage-earner . Every moral cause stagnates , while the press gives columns to the spread of immorality , and there has been no real grappling with the drink evil . There , as in Germany , there will be no real moral gain unless certain bold spirits rise in revolt when peace comes against the whole system of war , or there is a definite league for peace and long steps towards internationalism . Otherwise , it would appear , there would be no substantial gain whatever from the fact that men of all classes have stood together in the trenches with devout patriotism . Such compensations in the life of any nation as now appear by no means offset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the almost universal grief and suffering . Far more substantial results must appear to offset the tide of reaction , and far-reaching victories for humanity must be won about the peace-table in order to enable any one to assert with any basis of truth that the net result of this struggle is really to be a gain either for Germany or for mankind as a whole . FRANCIS JOSEPH AND AUSTRIA . Francis Joseph came to the throne of the Hapsburgs in the midst of storm and leaves it in the midst of tempest . Few conspicuous lives have been bracketed between such momentous dates in world history . He was born in 1830 , the year of the July Revolution which saw the reemergence of the Europe created by the French Revolution from the pall of reaction after Waterloo . He was brought to the throne by the revolutionary upheaval of 1848 , in which the results of the French Revolution were definitely affirmed . He dies on the eve of a probable world transformation . It is the longest personal reign in modern history ; longer by fouryears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Louis XIV , if we recall that Louis came to the throne a child of five while Francis Joseph assumed power at the threshold of manhood . Of his career it is usual to speak as a pilgrimage of sorrow , marked by national misfortunes and personal tragedy . He seems to have borne up well under both . He was sustained in part by an indomitable pride in an historic tradition of six hundred years of Hapsburg rule in the heart of Europe , in part probably by that light Viennese temperament which asserts its will to life and to joy under the bitter lessons of time . He has been commonly accepted as a man of kindly sentiments . If exception is taken to that estimate one would have to go back to the early years of his reign . Historians have not absolved him of responsibility for the severities visited upon the Hungarians after 1849 and the cruelties of the Austrian rule in Italy . That is a matter of half a century . The more favorable conception of the man has been fostered by the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace than any other nation in Europe . Had Francis Joseph died before August , 1914 , there would have been pertinence in the classic question of what would become of the Hapsburg monarchy when its apparently sole bond of unity disappeared with the person of the Emperor-King . The question has now lost meaning . Greater forces than the personality of Francis Joseph , or of any conceivable personality short of a Napoleon , will now determine the fate of the Dual Monarchy . If the war is won by the Allies , and won decisively , Austria , in proportion to its present importance , will be the greatest loser . If the war is won by the Central Powers or ends in a draw , Austria will remain what it has been , as measured by integrity of territory . Even without the war it is likely that events would have shown the estimate of the monarchy as a state doomed to dissolution to be exaggerated . The case of Turkey , the most conspicuous Sick Man in Europe , shows how persistent is the vitality of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was kept alive by the let-alone policies of Abdul Harald . When these had lost their efficacy , Turkey found relief in the heroic remedy of internal revolution administered by the Committee of Union . It has been so with the Hapsburg monarchy , which has profited by the sheer momentum of historical existence , by luck , and by the play of outside forces . Francis Joseph 's throne was saved for him in the first year of his reign by the Russian armies which crushed the Hungarian rebellion . It survived the disaster of KOniggratz because it suited Bismarck 's purposes to keep Austria intact and friendly . To-day it is Hungary which operates as an internal force for the maintenance of the monarchy . Magyar sentiment desires the preservation of a state in which it hopes to dominate . But though Austria remain intact , the war must inevitably accentuate the steady decline in prestige which marked the reign of Francis Joseph . He came to the throne only forty years after the Austrian Emperors had ceased to be Emperors of the Holy Roman Empire . His advent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which had been dominant in Europe since Waterloo . Ten years later came Villafranca and the beginning of the end of Austrian power in Italy . Five years later , in Schleswig-Holstein , came the collapse of its leadership in the Germanic system , a fact formally attested by Austria 's expulsion from the Germanic league two years later , after KOniggratz . After 1871 Austria became , what it has remained to the present day , a satellite of Prussia . The war , whether won or lost by the Central Powers , means the definite subordination of Vienna to Berlin , even in matters of internal policy . For Austria has shown no capacity to play the part even of an ally . Its armies have been regularly defeated under Austrian leadership and have now passed virtually under German command . It is not likely that , if Germany were to win , Austria would be left in free control of a military system which has broken down on every front , before Russia , before Italy , and before Servia , until Mackensen came to the rescue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Teutonic ascendency from the Baltic to the Gulf of Persia , means the definite subordination of the Hapsburg monarchy to the Prussian word of command . Such a consummation is all the more probable because it falls in with Hungarian as well as German ambitions . The Magyars hold that the war has shown them to be the only energetic element in the monarchy . They have not troubled to conceal their contempt for the weak-flbred German subjects of Francis Joseph and the recalcitrant Slays . Hungary can not hope to stand by itself . It is perfectly content to take the premier place in a state dominated by German policies and methods . And that is the fate which seems to await the heritage of the Hapsburg : German tutelagein its external life and Magyar ascendency within . THE ELECTORAL SYSTEM . Among the answers received by the New York World to its circular telegram of inquiry as to " the advisability of an amendment to the Constitution of the United States abolishing the Electoral College and directly electing the President of the United States , " there is one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative S. E. Winslow , Fourth Massachusetts District ( Rep. ) ? The question is one that I have not studied at all . And , whatever may be the mere count of yeas and nays among the answers , it is manifest that from the men who have done any serious thinking on the subject the proposal gets practically no support at all . For these men , whether Northerners or Southerners , realize that on the very threshold of the matter as a practical problem there stands the anomalous condition of the suffrage in the South . We are far from wishing it to be understood that that condition must be suffered in perpetuity ; only that the tremendously difficult problem it presents must be faced before the plan of election by direct popular vote can be considered as a practical proposal . Every Southern man quoted is dead against the idea ; every Northern man of importance is against it unless accompanied by a radical change as to suffrage in the South . That there are highly weighty objections independent of all this we have heretofore pointed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and until it is squarely grappled with there is not a particle of use in going on with the business at all . Short of making the election of the President turn on a nation-wide count of the popular vote , there are methods which would give a closer approximation to that than is furnished by the existing system . One of these , which has often been suggested , and which finds considerable support , is that of dividing the electoral vote of each State ( as nearly as possible ) in the ratio in which the popular vote of that State was divided at the polls . For this plan there is much to be said , but it should be noted that it would not do away with the difficulty presented by the Southern situation . As soon as you get away from the status quo ; as soon as you go behind the fact that the States of the Solid South cast their Presidential vote as they , or as the dominant race in them , please ; as soon as you make the distribution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practically and effectively concern themselves , you inevitably bring up the whole question of the negro 's suffrage . If we are prepared to tackle that question , well and good ; if not , it can only do mischief to agitate another which , the moment it gets beyond the academic stage , will inevitably drag this one into the arena . And even in the abstract , much as is justly to be said in favor of the proportional-electors scheme , the present method of solid State voting is by no means an unmixed evil . The concentration of effort upon States in which the winning over of a comparatively small number of independent voters is of momentous import is often calculated to give a reality to the contest which otherwise would be hardly attainable . We see this in a striking way in such campaigns as those which marked the September elections in Maine . In the campaign just closed , such phenomena as that of the vote in Kansas , or Ohio , or New Jersey , or several other States that might be mentioned , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in one respect or another , than would be the winning of a few tens of thousands of votes scattered in a nondescript way throughout the vast mass of our twenty millions of voters between the Atlantic and the Pacific , the Great Lakes and the Gulf . As for corrupt or fraudulent practices , it may well be doubted whether , when a great stake is involved , the danger of this would not be quite as great in a condition in which every vote that can be scraped into the pile , no matter in which one of our forty-eight States it might be found , would be so much to the good . In these circumstances , the systematic organization of the campaign by professional managers would become a more important factor than ever . In returning to the subject editorially , the World lays stress rather on the defects of the mechanism of the existing system than on its underlying principle . These defects are patent and are fraught with grave possibilities of danger ; and the World is entirely right in urging that they should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be remedied at an early day if effort is centred on the effecting of such amendment as is necessary to accomplish this than if it is loaded down with the difficulties of a more ambitious project of change . The personal disability of an individual elector , errors made by voters or by election officials affecting him , technical complications of any kind in the matter , are wholly unnecessary and should be removed . One way to get rid of them , and apparently the best as well as the simplest , would be to get rid of the mediation of electors altogether  --  the State 's vote , on the same basis as at present , being cast directly for the Presidential and Vice-Presidential candidates . One advantage of this method , and one by no means to be despised , is that it would permit , what is now absolutely impossible , a discrimination on the part of voters between the Presidential and the Vice-Presidential candidate of the same party . This would compel , what our repeated experience of vacancies in the Presidency has failed to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quality of the candidate for the Vice-Presidency . A Constitutional amendment to get rid of the glaring defects of the existing mechanism , while leaving its basis undisturbed , could , we feel sure , be pressed to adoption in a very short time , for It would meet with little or no opposition . Congress could do no better thing , immediately after assembling , than to charge a special committee with the duty of framing an amendment that would effect this simple but important and urgent reform . JACK LONDON . The most engaging figure in the younger ranks of American writers disappears with the premature death of Jack London . He bad the gift , rare among our successful authors , of personality . That cleverness and adaptability of which Mr. Brownell spoke the ether day , and which enables us to simulate the literary flair of the moment , has produced an enormous school of red-blooded writers of which Jack London must be taken as the founder . But whereas in his successors the gusto and the " punch " are machine-made and made to order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an abounding and winning vitality . He was more genuine than the primitive heroes of his own stories , because he was more manysided and more human . His Socialism , for Instance , was the expression at the same time of a love of combat and freedom and justice and of a generous sympathy for the weak and the unfortunate . This may not be in harmony with his predilection as a writer for the brute strength of man , and his preoccupation with the chronicles of tooth and claw , but it adds to the attractiveness of the big-muscled , clear-eyed , and warm-hearted personality that the general public visualized and his friends knew . Not since the death of Mark Twain has there been a literary figure in this country that was productive of so much newspaper copy , legitimately and not through the wiles of the press agent . The parallel to Mark Twain is found in the facts of Jack London 's life , a characteristic American career in its self-made success out of humble and difficult origins . What the Mississippi and the West were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Jack London . The comparison need go no further . It would be idle to assert that London coined out of his experience the high literary values attained by the great Missourian . Popular opinion is justified in regarding " The Call of the Wild , " published thirteen years ago and quite early in his literary career , as the best of his tales . While the zest of life , the love of adventure in the open , remained with him to the end , the original impulse became in later years too much overlaid with generalization and formula drawn out of books . His brief and sporadic studies at college and his reading in economics and popular sociology tended towards a self-conscious primitiveness . He became too fond of speaking of male-strength instead of men , and his strong lovers were too prone to address the object of their affections as " my mate " or " my woman , " suggestive more of a training in the principles of sex education and the biological responsibilities of citizenship than of the unrefleeting impulses of the truly primitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a methodical superman ; not so much one of Nietzsche 's unconscious blond beasts as a man who has read Nietzsche and acts up to formula . Better than these sophisticated primitives are the genuinely simple types of one of his very earliest books , " The God of His Fathers , " in which the simple elements of struggle , of human endurance , and loyalty and sacrifice are projected with almost childlike directness against the white desolation of the Far North ' which London added to the geography of literature . The anomaly of his Socialist creed has already been referred to . To one so fascinated by strength , risk , adventure , and the romance of elemental humanity there should have been in theory little appeal in the rigidly scientific demonstrations of the economic forces which shape history in spite of the human will . To one so preoccupied with the masterful qualities in man there should have been little attraction in the egalitarian doctrines of Marxism . But as we have already intimated , Jack London 's Socialism was in large measure the vision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theories of Socialism or in theirachievement than in the struggle by which they must be put into effect . He was in the habit of signing his letters , " Yours for the Revolution . " His sympathies , so far as he took active part in the Socialist movement , were with the militant elements in the movement . He stood with the Industrial Workers of the World , with whom he belonged by temperament and by experience . His forecast of the future dealt with the wars that were to bring about the ideal social state , as in " The Iron Heel . " What chance there would be under a perfect reign of justice and established security for the play of the primitive passions , whether the Socialist state would not work for a relaxation of the moral fibre which needs tumult and struggle and adversity to feed upon , he did not stop to contemplate . And this would have been too much to ask of one who was himself , as we have said , more primitive than most of his heroes , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impulse . Jack London is perhaps the best known of American writers abroad . He has been for years a best-seller in Russia and other countries on the Continent . This is due in part to the direct appeal of his story-telling art , but in large part , also , to the fact that foreigners choose to take the primitive strength of his work as typically American . It is very much the same case as with Walt Whitman . The outsider can not always understand why American literature should ever attempt to engage itself in the subtleties and refinement of the complex and civilized Homo Ettrolmus , who presumably does not exist in this country . From this new , rugged , primitive nation they expect a rugged , primitive literature . European critics are at the opposite pole from Mr. Brownell when they insist that we shall be ourselves . That self they assume must be something fresh , uncritical , untrammelled . The old tradition , so sedulously fostered in Europe , that the tomahawk and the bowie-knife did service on the streets of New York died @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was a pleasant one to indulge , just as Europeans to this day like to imagine that the breezy American is the typical American . By this standard Jack London has a place in world literature which is denied to much greater American writers . A creative artist he was not . In the long list of his books he has not added a living character to our literature . His concern , for that matter , was not with character , but with action .                     