@@469450

WHAT which follows will serve as 1 notes for the future historian who looks back upon this confused decade buried under a mass of labels and false names . We shall , if you please , not trouble ourselves with the virtues or vices of the NRA . We shall concern ourselves wholly with the somewhat befogged problem of its parentage . We shall , in short , follow the movements of all the gentlemen who were known to have been hanging about or frequenting the birthplace within the significant period preceding the parturition . There is a notion that NRA is the monster child of the Brain Trust . Whenever NRA bares its teeth and puts some little tailor in jail for pressing pants at a discount , the enemies of the Administration point their fingers in scorn and hatred at that flaming red rascal , Tugwell , who is supposed to have sovietized the good old U. S. A. through the NRA . Mr. Ogden Millsdenounces the Administration for its un-American conspiracy to " regiment " American business and life , and Mr. Mark Sullivan explains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective of the Brain Trust , which plots remorselessly for the Russification of the land of the free . Now , as a matter of simple fact , did the Brain Trust hatch out the NRA ? Or did the American Federation of Labor do it or assist in doing it ? Or can it be that it was the work of persons who have for years been contributors to the Republican campaign funds ? The NRA has been called the Charter of Labor . It has been called the Magna Charta of American business . It has been called sonic other things . But if it is really a charter of anything at all , perhaps we can settle the point by laying our finger upon the gentlemen who inspired and drew up the charter . Important social events always get shrouded in a maze of contradictory yarns . The historian who tries to unravel , for instance ( as I once attempted ) , the origin of the Sherman anti-trust law discovers that very little is extant in the way of records from the principal actors at the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speak , if not with all , at least with a large number of the persons who took part in the first stages of the formation of the NRA . What follows , therefore , is based upon a number of personal interviews and no little correspondence with many of the chief actors and many who sat about in the role of front-row observers . The actual business of putting together the NRA began in March , 1933 , after Roosevelt took office . But one must look far beyond the throb and pother of those feverish days to understand the swift succession of moves and the cast of characters behind them . Regimentation of American life means forming society into regiments , subjecting it to orders , drill , commanders . Employers divided into numerous small units , employees unorganized , consumers acting as countless unattached persons ? this is the picture of an unregulated society . Regimentation of business means , in the minds of those who use the term , forming business men into regiments , bringing business under regulation , controlling production , prices , trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years at least business men have been , in varying degrees , in favor of this . The government has been against it . Later on the Chamber of Commerce of the United States raised the slogan of " Self-Rule in Industry . " This was not a struggle to shift the control of industry from the government to industry itself . Industry wanted not freedom from regulation but the right to enjoy regulation . It clamored for the modification of the Sherman and Clayton anti-trust acts so that employers might unite to fabricate and enforce regimentation of industry through trade associations . Now to be fair we must look at the business man for what he is . He is not an economist or social reformer , but just a city boy trying to get along . Getting along means profits . Profits , he imagines , mean prosperity . The continuous functioning of the industrial machine with employment for all depends on profitable business . He sees his enterprise threatened by a glut of goods which society can not huy . He sees new inventions , ruthless and unscrupulous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He sees his business , everybody 's business , made profitless by trade practices which are the fruit of desperation and dishonesty and greed . He thinks the face of commercial society could be changed by compelling men to be first honest and , second , sensible . He wants trade associations , therefore , to be empowered and imple-mented : First , to give the industry the benefits of scientific research ; Second , to bring to each competitor the fruits of economic research ? the light which statistical data can give the intelligent enterpriser ; Third , to restrain over-production . Unsaleable surpluses lead to price-cutting , shut-downs , unemployment , and , at intervals , depressions . By limiting production , restraining capital extensions , assigning production quotas and territorial concessions , the curves in the business cycle can be smoothed away , every producer can be made safe and strong and ? alas for the frailty of mathematics ) ? an industrial society WHOSE CHILD made up of solvent and prosperous units will he itself solvent and prosperous . That the whole is not equal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in these pages by Mr. Henry Pratt Fairchild , does not enter this business man 's head . Fourth , to check all unfair practices ? false advertising , false labelling , trade-mark and style marauders , personnel raiding , quality pinching , bad credit practices , excessive service accessories and ? worst of all ? price cutting , and all the other desperate devices which mark the mad scramble for business . Surely these are evils . What objection can the healthy mind invent to oppose these worthy objectives ? And there is but one way to deal with them ? to permit trade associations to unite , to make rules governing the trade and to enforce these rules with proper penalties . To do this the business man asks us to modify the Sherman anti-trust law , which makes it a crime for business men to deal with these difficulties . This , of course , is putting the matter in its best colors . There can be no objection to establishing ethical standards in trades to make business more civilized . But , unhappily , making rules of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customer and the worker is one thing ; while making agreements to resist the worker and strip the customer through high prices in order to swell profits is quite another . And experience has shown that it is this , rather than the nobler ethical objectives stated above , which self-rule is designed to make possible . One footnote should be added here . Raising prices in a society where the vast majority have not the means of buying at low prices , and limiting production in a population which falls so far short of possessing even the simple necessities of Life , can scarcely be termed socially constructive statesmanship . The heart of our problem lies in the inequalities of the system in distributing the fruits of its labor , and behind that lie the as yet unexplored mysteries of the profit system itself . Those who insist that the profit motive is still essential in a society like ours may yet admit that excessive profits make the smooth functioning of the system impossible ; that , while great profits arc permissible , our economic machine can not run without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end produce depressions with appalling inevitability ; that control of our economic machine without controlling profits is utterly impossible ; and that you can not possibly control profits so long as you lodge control in the hands of the one class which is interested in keeping profits up ? namely the enterpriser or employer . I do not wish to argue these points but merely to state the other side of the question . However , there is one thing we may all concede here . It is that , whether the Chamber of Commerce is right or wrong , the objective it holds in view ? self-rule in industry to control prices , production , and trade practices in order to safeguard solvency and profits ? is not a revolutionary one and , by no stretch of the imagination can it be said to have originated in Moscow . What is more , the whole idea was fully developed before the members of the Brain Trust had reached swaddling clothes and before the phrase Brain Trust itself was coined . In 1925 the Trade Relations Committee of the Chamber of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in what were called trade-practice conferences under the auspices of the Federal Trade Commission . Trade associations adopted codes of practice ( a term President Roosevelt in his latest book intimates was invented under the NRA ) . Assistant Attorney-General William J. Donovan ruled that such codes might be submitted to the Trade Commission and the Department of Justice for scrutiny before adoption . if they were confined to eliminating objectionable trade practices they were approved . Price fixing and control of production were banned because illegal . Over forty such codes were adopted . When Mr. Hoover became President he promptly ended the practice because , while the codes themselves were innocent enough , the trustees or directors of the trade associations , under the shield of the code , sanctioned agreements about price and production and competition which were illegal and , as Mr. Hoover 's attorney-general said , no government authority could possibly police these codes . Then came the crash of 1929 . Unemployment grew at an alarming rate . In February , 1931 , the Chamber named a group called the Committee on Continuity of Business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In October , 1931 , that committee made its report . After examining the causes of the depression the committee put forward a long-term program . That program it prefaced by the following statement : A freedom of action which might have been justified in the relatively simple life of the last century can not be tolerated today , because the unwise action of one individual may adversely affect the lives of thousands . We have left the period of extreme individualism and are living in a period in which national economy must be recognized as a controlling factor . This was not Berle or Tugwe/1 or Moley talking , but the Chamber of Commerce . It then proposed : 1 . Control of production to balance consumption . 2 . Modification of Ate Sherman anti-trust law to permit business units to enter agreements to control production under government supervision and with full publicity . 3 . A national economic council made up of leaders in all walks of society and the Department of Commerce , under the auspices of the Chamber of Commerce . 4 . Unemployment insurance , old-age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in industry . About the same time Mr. Gerard Swope announced his Swope Plan , which proposed the recognition of trade associations under a modification of the anti-trust laws , with power to outline trade practices , - stabilize " production , regulate prices , set up methods of accounting , and establish workmen 's compensation , unemployment insurance , disability , and old-age insurance and employee representation . One other movement was on the fire . The Chamber named another group called the Committee on Work Periods in Industry , under the chairmanship of Mr. P. W. Litchfield , president of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company . It set to work in the summer of 1932 and in September made a preliminary report endorsing the Share-the-work movement . This had been launched by a committee under the auspices of the National Conference of Federal Reserve Business and Industria/Committees , and was headed , I believe , by Mr. Walter Teagle of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey . Private relief was running out . State and Local funds were being exhausted . Higher income taxes loomed . The only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the backs of those workers who still held jobs , by getting them to share their work and pay with their unemployed brothers . Moreover , the committee concluded that employers should be permitted to unite to make agreements to shorten hours and adopt minimum wage scales to protect workers as well as employers from the demoralizing effect of sweatshop competitors . The notion that the shorter hours and minimum-wage agreements of the Codes were forced on business is a pure fiction . Business wanted the opportunity , by agreement , to force it on the unwilling ten per cent . Thus , then , the matter stood at the end of 1932 as Hoover prepared to move out of the White House . The Chamber of Commerce and what is called Big Business had a program which included ( 1 ) modification of the Sherman anti-trust law ; ( 2 ) self-rule by trade associations under codes of practice to regulate production , prices , and trade practices ; ( 3 ) authority to shorten hours and establish minimum wages ; ( 4 ) a long-term plan for setting up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came March , 1933 , the end of the Hoover era and the inauguration of Franklin D. Roosevelt and the New Deal . We may now gather round the cradle of the NRA . III The beginnings of this adventure are to be found in that vast circular disorder , that frantic succession of collapses and confusions which accompanied Mr. Roosevelt into the White House . The hanks were closed . The whole shattered structure of business came down . The President was busy chiefly with getting the banks open and money again in circulation . Washington was aflame with rumors of vast plans , bold proposals of every color from dark blue to flaming red . The Brain Trust was supposed to be established in power , riding the whirlwind and directing the storm . And when the NRA emerged it was this mysterious Brain Trust which was given credit for the job . As a matter of fact the Brain Trust had nothing to do with it . The idea got its start , not in or near the White House at all , but in several separate groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the imperious dominion of crowding events . We pause for definitions . By Brain Trust is meant a vague group of radical young professors who advised the President . They were supposed to have over-sized brain-pans equipped with excessive cerebral capacity ; were experts in economics , government , and law , and , above all , symbolized a break with the Coolidgian and Hooverian past and its bookless , nescient business men . That they seldom saw one another after Roosevelt 's inauguration and did not join in advocating any rounded program is well established ; by Brain Trust we thus simply mean these scattered men and the general influence which they represented . By NRA we mean , not the New Deal , but only one part of it ? that part which is now organized under the command of Brigadier General Hugh S. Johnson ? the administrative agency which has brought into existence the Codes of Practice and the agreements for shorter hours and minimum wages , and which has up to now handled the labor relations of the President . Now we may resume our history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Black of Alabama . That bill provided that employers operating in interstate commerce could not work their employees for more than thirty hours a week . Senator Black 's bill , without any presidential approval , passed the Senate with amazing swiftness , by a vote of 53 to 30 on April 8th , or just a little over a month after the session began . That surprising event set in motion many powerful currents . About the same time Mr. Litchfield 's Committee on Work Periods in Industry had its report ready . It recommended ( 1 ) that Congress should authorize trade associations to enter agreements on minimum wages and maximum hours ; ( 2 ) that all industry should adopt the share-the-work principles ; ( 3 ) that the maximum forty-hour week should be adopted ; ( 4 ) that the weekly quota of hours , within that limit , should be flexible . When the Black bill passed it was held up by a vote to reconsider . Mr. H. I. Harriman , president of the Chamber of Commerce , went to Senator Black . He explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on shortening hours . Black wanted thirty ; the Chamber wanted forty . They differed on the means of attaining the objective . Black was for an inflexible statute . The Chamber wanted a grant of power to industry to deal with the problem . Harriman had a bill all prepared and asked Black to introduce it as a substitute for his own . Black refused . Harriman then went to other quarters . Meanwhile another group had become active . Senator Robert Wagner , of New York , introduced a bill to remove the limitation on RFC loans to " self-liquidating projects " ( Senate Bill 509 ) . He favored large government loans for public works . In the Latter half of March in the midst of all the confusion , former Congressman Meyer Jacobstein of Rochester , New York , called on Wagner to interest him in government guarantees for inventories and pay-rolls of business enterprises . At Wagner 's suggestion , Jacobstein and Harold Moulton of the Brookings Institute explored the idea and made a report recommending government aid by means of credit to the lighter industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 509 and went to the President with it . The idea of organizing industry had not yet come up . The President , without approv ing , suggested that the Senator call a conference of those interested . This was done , and immediately the first group met in Wagner 's office . It included an odd assortment ? Meyer Jacobstein ; Virgil Jordan , then with the McGraw-Hill business papers ; Congressman Clyde Kelly of Pennsylvania ; Harold Moulton ; Fred I. Kent , vice-president of the Bankers Trust Company ; David Podell , a New York lawyer ; Simon Rifkind , Wagner 's secretary ; Colonel Rorty , Jett Lauck of the Railway Brotherhoods , and James Rand , president of the Remington Rand Company , the man who introduced Dr. Wirt to immortality . This group was as full of plans as the capital itself . Kent wanted government guarantee of profits ; Rorty urged his real estate premium auction plan ; Moulton and Jacobstein were for credits to business ; Wagner wanted public works ; Podell was for modification of the anti-trust law and permission to trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopeless . But after a report on its discussions drawn by Harold Moulton , Jacobstein and Podell and Moulton were named to draw a tentative bill . This they did . The bill was printed but discarded . I have seen a copy of that bill , however , and it contains the germ of nearly everything save the licensing clause , which is in the final act . It began with a provision for credits to industry . The second section provided large grants for public works . The third section recognized trade associations , permitted regulation of production , and rules for trade practices . The fourth section provided for agreements between employers in trade associations to shorten hours of labor . The fifth section outlawed price-cutting . The sixth provided for agreements between business groups . The bill went to the Labor Department for WHOSE CHILD scrutiny and came back with the clause guaranteeing the right of collective bargaining . It was in much the same language as in the final bill . With the emphasis put on public works and loans to industry , it was styled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial recovery . " Kent and Rorty exploded because their proposals were ignored . Wagner was full of doubts about the whole draft . He decided to do nothing about this bill but to have further conferences . All this time another group was at work . It began partly in the Agricultural and partly in the Commerce Department . Jerome Frank , general counsel for the Agricultural Department , and others like him were interested in national planning along the models proposed by George Soule , Stuart Chase , Charles Beard . They wanted to weave a pattern for our economic society , and include the regulation of profits and uneconomic corporate practices , minimum wages , and hours of labor . The Department of Commerce , under Mr. Daniel Roper , the most reactionary agency in the administration , squeezing in on every move to press its conservative business view , had also been busy on this subject . Mr. John Dickinson , lawyer , closely identified with Wall Street law interests , and the usual agent for these forays by the Commerce Department , had a collection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry plans . Dickinson and Frank somehow got together , and at the next meeting of the Wagner group were asked in . Thereafter the work of producing an acceptable bill was carried on by Dickinson , Podell , Jerome Frank , and Simon Rifkind . They worked every night , turning out half a dozen drafts in a week or two . By this time Black had got his bill passed again under the motion to reconsider and by a large vote . In the House a similar measure ? the Connery bill ? was reported favorably . It had a minimum-wage provision urged by Secretary Perkins . Connery insisted on a clause keeping out foreign goods manufactured under less favorable wage and labor conditions . Miss Perkins warned the committee the President could not approve the bill in its present form . But the bill was reported out favorably . House and Senate leaders warned that the President did not approve it . There is no doubt that the President did not want these bills passed . Yet one tremendously important fact stands out now . The question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer a doubtful issue . The Senate had passed one bill . The House was ready to pass a more comprehensive one . The President could have had these bills altered in any way he wished . He could have had a thirty-hour , thirty-six-hour , or forty-hour week , a flexible work week , a minimum wage , or any other emergency safeguard he desired . Or he could have had a simple bill permitting industries to organize to limit work hours and fix minimum wages by agreement , as suggested by the Litchfield committee of the Chamber . It was not necessary at this point to invent any substitute to protect labor . What was wanted now was a substitute that would protect employers from these statutory limitations on work periods and wages . The next move was to save the employers . When , therefore , the NRA act was brought forward , it was to defeat the Black and Connery bills , to turn the subject over to employers and to give them , besides , something they had wanted for years but dared not now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the privilege of self-rule in industry . IV Just before this another figure had stepped upon the scene . To the office of Raymond Moley , then Assistant Secretary of State and closest man to the President , flowed art endless stream of plans for salvation . Among them demands for the regulation of industry held first place . Moley had asked James Warburg , a Wall Street banker , to look into the matter . Warburg did and made a report in the form of a suggested message to Congress . In it he made the President say in effect that the time had come for the regimentation of business . Warburg is now off the reservation . He is criticizing the Administration for regimenting business . Perhaps someone can dig up that document to confound him . At all events Warburg 's report interested Moley . At the time General Hugh S. Johnson was wandering round Washington from conference to conference . Johnson had been employed by Bernard Baruch for a number of years in Wall Street studying industrial and market movements . He was called Baruch 's " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " my man Johnson . " Baruch opposed Roosevelt for the nomination , but after the latter 's success , Baruch contributed Johnson to the campaign . Johnson soon found himself close to the candidate , who liked him . He spent much time on Roosevelt 's campaign train , wrote several speeches for him , which were pretty good after the wild words were taken out of them . He was , I am told , useful , well-liked , and ? strangest of all ? self-effacing . Now he was in Washington with no particular commission . Moley , meeting him , suggested that he take a desk in Moley 's office and prepare a report and plan on this business of organizing industry . It was not a new subject to Johnson . He had talked about it during the cam paign . Indeed , when Baruch tendered Johnson to Roosevelt , through Moley and Tugwell , the subject was discussed then . That perhaps is why Moley selected him for the job . At all events , he accepted Moley 's offer with breathless alacrity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Early in May he had a bill . It covered a single sheet of paper . He threw it into the ring by presenting it to a member of Senator Wagner 's group , who expressed astonishment at its brevity . It was an outright grant of power to the President to organize industry , to give to trade associations authority to regulate prices , production , trade practices , wages , and hours . It provided for suspending the Sherman anti-trust law . It contained the authority to the President to license industry . But it had not a single word about collective bargaining for labor . A day or two later he joined the Wagner group and after that he began to take a more and more dominating part in drawing up the final bill . It is the simple truth that the liberals in that group became less and less influential and the business-minded persons , who were for self-rule in industry , took the lead . Jerome Frank , Simon Rif-kind , John Dickinson , David Podell , and General Johnson , and later Donald Richberg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Dickinson gradually pushing the others out and finally Johnson taking over the job with Richberg . The credits-tobusiness clauses were taken out . The plan to organize industry through the trade associations was put first and the public-works section subordinated . The President never whole-heartedly assented to that section and he has ever since been the chief obstacle to a public-works program . Johnson drew a second bill , longer than his first . It was like the first , but more detailed in its directions . He WHOSE CHILD kept in his licensing provisions and added another ? a most amazing section which it is difficult to credit . I have , however , seen it , and this provision helps to place the General in his social and economic sympathies . He wanted on every kind of shop and store and factory a sales tax of len per cent . Both these provisions were opposed by the group and were actually taken out . But the licensing provision mysteriously reappeared in the bill again after it left the hands of the group and came back from the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been interpolated by the Department of Labor ? had a troubled career . It is interesting to note that the first draft provided for national and regional labor boards representing labor , employers , and public . This was stricken out . Two serious perils , however , beset Section 7a . They came from the man who was supposed to be the friend of labor , Mr. Donald Richberg . The clause as originally prepared by the committee read : No employee or no one seeking employment shall be required as a condition of employment to refrain from joining a labor union of his own choosing . As recast by Richberg , it read : No employee or no one seeking employ . ment shall be required as a condition of employment to join any organization or refrain from joining a labor organization of his own choosing . The italicized clause turned up in the bill when it was introduced . Of course , it completely changed the meaning and actually guaranteed the open shop . Richberg excused the change as the fruit of unhappy composition . Later , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the following provision was offered as an amendment : Nothing in this title shall be construed to compel a change in the existing satisfactory relations between employees and employers of any particular plant , firm or corporation , except that the employees of any particular plant , firm or corporation shall have the right to organize for collective bargaining with their employers as to wages , hours of labor and other conditions of employment . Senators Wheeler , Wagner , LaFollette , Costigan , and Norris were promptly on their feet to resist it . Senator Clark explained that " Mr. Richberg not only accepted the amendment but thought it was very beneficial to the bill . " This was a complete charter for the company union . But it was defeated . However , the defeat was unimportant . For General Johnson and Mr. Richberg later announced that the words " closed shop " and open shop " were eliminated from the dictionary of the NRA . And having said this , Johnson warned the American Federation of Labor that the strike could not be tolerated . One more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shooting with his thirty-hour bill , offered several amendments . They are unimportant now but what he said was important . He warned that the power of making laws , so far as control of industry was concerned , was being transferred from Congress to the trade associations , and that unless profits were controlled along with wages and hours , nothing would be accomplished save to see prices rise . He then voted against the bill . If now we keep all this in mind it will be easy to understand all that has happened since NRA became a law . I am reliably informed that Mr. Harriman told his directors that it was a complete victory for the Chamber . They got more than they hoped ? modification of the anti-trust laws , self-rule in industry , defeat of the Black and Connery bills , the right to regulate hours and minimum wages transferred to the trade associations under NRA supervision instead of by statute . In short , with the exception of the collective bargaining provision ? which as we have seen was subsequently robbed of much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely the influence and ideal of big business men . The share of the Brain Trust in its paternity was microscopic ; the share of the Chamber of Commerce and other business interests was predominant . There is little in the present outcry about government 's regulating industry . The government has merely given up its long fight against the attempt of industry to regulate itself . It now says to industry : " Very well . You want to govern yourself . Go ahead . We will step aside . We will watch you while you are doing it and keep an eye on you later . " That is all . As to the government eye that will be kept busy , General Johnson lost no time in announcing that he would expect the trades to police themselves . If this is all true , then why is business now denouncing the NRA ? That is a fair question . Big business is afraid of the labor sections about collective bargaining . They are harm less now . But under a proper administration or under a strengthened law they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " save what is good in the NRA " and get rid of the rest . Of course we know what is good from the business point of view . That is the principle of self-rule ? price fixing , control of production , and trade practices . In November the Industrial Advisory Council of the Department of Commerce , made up wholly of big business men , recommended that NRA be turned over to the Chamber of Commerce and that the government withdraw . Johnson gave a swift approval of that scheme . The President said he thought the time was not yet ripe for business to take it over . When will the time be ripe ? In the middle of June the same group renewed the suggestion that the entire machinery of the NRA be turned over to business . There can be little doubt that , unless we get down to calling things by their right names and stop using high-flown euphemistic words to conceal very serious and questionable proceedings , and unless liberals maintain a more effective vigilance than they have in the past , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  