@@488250

A FORMER deputy director of the United States Information Agency ( U. S. I. A. ) has joined the now-it-canbe-told dub . His name is Martin Merson . He is a business man who stumbled into this government job last year and stayed there about five months . Throughout the experience he whimpered at the door of Senator McCarthy in the hope that that gentleman would stroke or pat him just once or at least deign to say , " Give me a paw , Marty . " . It never happened . Joe would n't play . Now , about fourteen months after putting all this behind him , Merson feels remorse . So he has unpacked his U. S. I. A. luggage and spread the dirty laundry across the pages of the Reporter ( October 7 , 1954 ) . It is the epic of McCarthy 's domination of the American government 's information agency . The essentials of the story became public last year , but Merson has supplied interesting and repulsive details that were then missing . His report.is at once informative and misleading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nightmarish Battle of the Books is over . The theory that things are now clean and tidy in the front office of the U. S. I. A. is put more SCRUTINEER is the pen name of a New York newspapeilizan who occasionally cove 's the Washington scene . - strongly and positively in another article in the same issue of the Reporter . In this second piece a former Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs , Edward W. Barrett , gives the U. S. I. A. 's present chiefs a clean bill of health . " The new administrators , " Barrett writes , " have performed valiantly . " The administration of the agency , he says , has come back a long Way " from the shocking shambles of 1953 . " The Washington Post and Times-Herald , after reprinting a lengthy summary of the Merson article , editorially supports the notion that the Information Agency has gone straight : " The U. S. I. A. has striven mightily to recoup the national prestige ground into mud by the truckling to McCarthy : " Before the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who believe the U. S. I A. a.drhinistration has undergone a fundamental change are very gullible indeed In fairness , one improvement should be mentioned . When the Battle of the Books was moving to a climax early in 1953 , the average number of volumes shipped abroad monthly by the Information Agency dropped from 119,913 to 341 , or to about .3 per cent of the previous norm Lack of clearance for authors was drying up the supply of publications for the government 's overseas libraries . Such complete paralysis has been overcome . ' Books are reaching the librariesnowadays , though often there is still a long delay owing to the slow clearance . The overriding truth , however , is that the spirit of McCaithy continues to permeate the United States Information Agency under its present director , Theodore Streibert . If one hears much less about it , that is for two reasons . First , many a cripple grows accustomed to his deformity . Second , Streibert has managed to conceal the deformity He has stated publicly and privately time and again that the U @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the pohtiCal cornplexion of the authors . LET 'S go back a little into the histOry of the agency Among the things Merson has spotlighted is this : If so many of the nine thousand U. S. I. A employees were stricken by fear for their jobs and livelihood , it is small wonder For the men at the top of the agency were obviously clinging to their jobs , too . Merson was number two to Robert L. Johnson , who took leave from the presidency of Philadelphia 's Temple University in order to conduct the U S I. A. , Or , as it was then called , the I. I. A. Its main functions then as now were operating the Voice of America and some two hundred information-center libraries in about ninety countries and territories . United States overseas libraries contain - more than 2,000,000 books and have ? been visited by at least 36,000,000 foreigners a year . The $85,000,000-a-year propaganda agency also controls film services , traveling exhibits , lecturers , and exchange students . We are here con- , cerned with the libraries . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overheated , wildest performances last year , when he charged that they harbored 30,000 volumes by Communist authors . He ' produced the names of only 418 of these culprits , among whom were Foster Rhea Dulles , ? cousin of . the Secretary of State , and such anti-Communist liberals as John Dewey , Elmer Davis , Robert M. Hutchins , Sherwood Anderson , Louis Bromfield , Edna Ferber , Carl and Mark Van Doren , and many others . In fact , the list just stopped short of William McKinley . This was the climate in which Johnson and Merson quickly found themselves gas-ping for air . They took charge a fortnight after the State Department issued its notorious instruction ' to the Information Agency : " No material by any Communists , fellow-travelers , et cetera , will be used under any circumstances . " They are still trying to discover what an et cetera is in order to be sure to ban his  --  or is it her or its 7 ? books . Merson's'story is one of pitiful self-degradation . He and Johnson spent weeks figuratively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with McCarthy . They failed . For months they were unable to worm their way into the Wisconsin panjandrum 's presence . They had to be content with coaxing Messrs . Cohn and Schine to lunches or dinners in the vain hope of quelling McCarthy 's agitation against the Information Agency . They found the White House and State Department toadying to Joe . Mr. Eisenhower 's favorite psychological warrior , C , D Jackson of Time , Inc : , answered their S 0 . S. with a cool warning that it was " the President 's passion not to offend anybody in Congress . " They could not get a single- Administration leader to protect the United States against being held up to what Merson now admits was " worldwide contempt . and ridicule . " Johnson and Merson were exhausted and depressed by the futile attempt to feed the insatiable Wisconsin crocodile . They decided to quit . Before leaving their jobs ' they pub-fished a long policy declaration or deathbed repentance . It revoked previous di-rectives . Its theme song-was that each book would be judged on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its author 's great-grandmother liked red caviar or whether in childhood the author himself read " Little Red Riding Hood . " It indicated that the blacklist of writers , composers , and books would be abolished . Indeed , a gust of fresh air suddenly swept through the agency 's moldy offices . By the end of July , 1953 , books for United States overseas libraries were really being chosen according to their content . That was the important thing . - ON AUGUST 5 the agency 's new boss , Streibert , former chairman of the board of the Mutual Broadcasting System , took charge . Two weeks later he ordered a retreat from liberalism . He reinstituted security clearance for authors and composers A central catalogue was estabIished  --  a combined whitelist and blacklist of writers , artists , and composers . Today there are sixteen large files . They contain about 7,000 names ' of authors cleared , rejected , or awaiting investigation . The list is constantly expanding . There is a long-standing , publicly announced order barring from overseas libraries the works of three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 2 ) invokers of the Fifth Amendment ; ( 3 ) persons convicted of crimes involving the security of the United States . The existence of a fourth category , known in official jargon as " additional data " cases , has never been admitted . This includes all authors against whom derogatory information has been lodged . ' It may be , and often is , wholly unverified gossip and slander . It may be a newspaper story putting a writer or musician in an adverse light . It may be an anonymous letter . Nobody wants the responsibility for approving the books of waiters whose names appear on the " additional data " list Consequently a stop has been put to the U. S. I. A. 's purchase of any works by these writers or composers , pending their screening and clearance . Existence of this graylist , which is in fact a blacklist , places U. S. I. A. Dnector Streibert in a strange light . In an interview with U. S. News and World Report last March , Streibert declared unreservedly that " books should 1/e @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid to the author . " Under his leadership exactly the opposite is being done . The accent more than ever is on snooping into an author 's private life and thoughts while disregarding his book 's substance . As recently as September 15 , 1954 , one of Streibert 's aides , Acting Assistant Chief for Operations Parker May , circulated a confidential list of 141 names of authors on - whom " additional data " existed . It was labeled " a consolidated list . " A few days ago it was recalled from all offices with the explanation that otherwise it might fall into the hands of newsmen Alas , Streibert , too late ! It had already happened , and here are a few of the 141 names : Henry Seidel Canby , Aaron Copland , Malcolm Cowley , Adolph Dehn , Dorothy Canfield Fisher , Martha Foley , Julian Huxley , Saul K. Padover , Dorothy Parker , Frederick L. Schiunan , Roger Sessions , Edgar Snow , George Soule , and Victor Yalchontoff . This is a random selection of just 14 of the 141 American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholars , composers , and artists . The entire list reads like a " Who 's Who " in the realm of American culture . Besides these 141 victims of existing " additional data " there are hundreds of others whose names have been sent to the U. S. I. A. 's security " officersfor investigation . There they remain buried . As long as they have not been cleated and returned , their works may not be added to the United States libraries abroad . To all purposes , their books , music , or paintings are blacklisted . Some of the authors , have been awaiting clearance for nineteen months - and may well ' wait indefinitely . The case of Saul K. Padover , dean of the School of Politics at the New School for Social Research in New York , is au oddity . Under its educational exchange program the State Department engaged Dr. Padover to visit Indo-China , Burma , Malaya , Thailand , and India and to lecture on history , politics , and economics from August to mid-November , 1953 . His talks stirred interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the countries where he had been speaking . Padover had received the State Department 's loyalty and security clearance before being offered the Asian assignment . ? But his name appears on the U. S. I. A. 's " additional data " list , and therefore hi 's books are barred from American overseas libraries . THERE are stranger goings-on than this . For instance , some months ago a member of the New York Times Washington staff , Dana Adams Schmidt , telephoned the U. S. I. A. to check a rumor that the agency Was blacklisting the works of Ernest Hemingway . The reporter 's inquiry went to the U. S. I. A. 's deputy director ? Merson 's successor , Abbott Washburn . Perhaps a vision of headlines floated before Washburn 's half-closed eyes : " United States Government Outlaws Hemingway 's Books . " That would hardly do . There 's a limit to lust how silly you can look and survive . Washburn nervously called his subordinate , Franklin L. Burdette , chief of the Information Agency service which controls the overseas libraries . Yes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional data " list , and so purchase of his works for the U. S. I. A. is prohibited . Washburn was cool enough promptly to direct removal of Herring-way 's name from the list . The U. S. I. A. then called back the New York Times man and solemnly denied that there was any U. S I A. restriction against Hemingway 's ' navels . Dana Schmidt may be annoyed to learn that he missed the news of this little result of his inquiry . But he can derive satisfaction from having restored Ernest Hemingway to respectability , for a while . anyhow . But did he ? I have just remembered something that makes me doubt it Some , days ago it was proposed to Burdette that the U. S. I. A. should secure world rights to Hemingway 's " The Old Man and the Sea . " Burdette turned down the suggestion because there were " additional data " of an undisclosed character concerning Hemingway . So maybe it 's A Farewell to Ernest , after all . Burdette distinguished himself far more impressively in another episode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These are specially-made two-shelf containers that can be put on desks to hold cheap paperback volumes . The U. S. I. A ' s sensible idea was to use this contraption to familiarize foreign peoples with the availability of good books at nominal prices in America The Expendable Libraries are given gratis to cultural institutions abroad . The institutions can let readers take these books and either return them or keep them as gifts . The two-shelf paperback collections are also in-United States overseas libraries . They come under Burdette , who was a teaches of government at the University of Maryland until he joined the- , 11 . S. I. A. via the Republican National Committee in March , 1954 . One afternoon Burdette noticed among the paperbacks a book called " Walden " by someone named Henry Thoreau . Burdette carried the book home and read or skimmed it . That was enough . Returning to the office the next day he announced that " Walden " , was downright socialistic ! One of his ' colleagues drew him aside and expostulated : Was Burdette aware that a lot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the greatest American classic ? It was wasted effort . Burdette ordered " Walden " removed from the Expendable Libraries . I do n't suppose anybody troubled to inform Burdette that 1954 happens to be the hundredth anniversary of " Walden 's " appearance . American publishers , magazines , newspapers , schools , and universities have been commemorating the event with intense devotion to the great American who gave us this masterpiece . It remained for a junior and expendable official= in Washington to observe the hundredth anniversary of " Walden " by having the book withdrawn from circulation in the United States government 's Expendable Libraries . WITHOUT their knowledge , two well-known American writers of popular books on psychology have been enduring a bumpy passage through the U. S. I A. sausage machine . They are Harry Allen Overstreet and his wife , Mrs. Bonaro W. Overstreet . In a statement which Johnson , the retiring director , issued in July , 1953 , books by the Overstreets were specifically mentioned as approved for use in American libraries abroad . Nothing is ever quite that simple in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late Senator Pat McCarran , McCarthy 's buddy , had elicited a promise from the U. S I. A ? or I. I. . A. , as it then was --  : that the Overstreet books would never be used in the government 's overseas libraries McCarran just disliked the Overstreets and their works . Nobody seems to know why , but the Senator had power , so that was that . Books by the Overstreets were already on the libraries ' shelves abroad , and the U. S. I A was preparing a condensation of Harry Overstreet 's " The Mature Mind " It was to be published in translation , and at least one edition was already in print overseas Suddenly , bingo , a ective was issued ordering that the Overstreet book should not be used . The en- , tire edition in translation was destroyed ? physically demolished . Subsequently the Overstreet works received U. S. LA. approval by special dispensation , as in the Hemingway affair . But this absolution came too late to rescue the destroyed edition of " The Mature Mind . " Perhaps to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks Burdette has ruled that the Overstreet books have not been cleared . Thus , while their writings Were not removed from the libraries , a ban was put on further government buying of their works . P. S. to the Reporter : The latest " additional data " list circulated confidentially last month inside the U. S. I. A. provisionally - blacklists an author whose name , is familiar to the Reporter . It is Theodore White , who wrote the bestselling book on European politics " Fire in the Ashes " and who is one of the editors of the Reporter , with the title of national correspondent .                     