@@409450

FOR THE 43 MILLION AMERICANS WHO HAVE DISABILITIES , BARRIER-FREE ACCESS TO THE OUTDOORS WILL SOON BECOME A REALITY . It can happen to anyone : an auto accident , a work-related mishap , one wrong step in a tree stand . In less time than it takes you to read this sentence , you could become someone with a disability , your life changed permanently . Perhaps you 'll never hunt or fish again . Knowing this , we shudder and turn the page . When we see someone in a wheelchair , we look away . We change the subject . But the truth is that an estimated 43 million Americans , many of them sportsmen , have some form of disability . Each year about 10,000 people , most of them under 25 , survive a spinal cord injury , only to be forced to use a wheelchair for the rest of their lives . As our population ages and lives longer , the number of people with various disabilities is increasing . And all it takes is one bad step for someone to wind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Michigan , was never afraid of heights , even though he had fallen many times from high places while working in the family landscape and nursery business . An avid deer hunter , Smith had taken more than 20 deer , mostly while bowhunting from tree stands . One rainy October afternoon in 1984 his luck changed . " It was one of those stupid things we hunters sometimes do , " Smith said . " I had built a permanent stand from Wolmanized lumber , which tends to get slick when wet ( because of the preservative , which is applied under pressure ) . I had kitchen carpeting and a staple gun in the back of my truck to make the stand safe , but was more interested in hunting and forgot about it . Once in my stand , I kicked at a pile of wet leaves . That 's when my feet went out from under me . " Smith fell 12 feet and dislocated his spine . An agonizing 4-1/2 hours passed before his hunting partner came looking for him . " I knew I had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I thought I would go into shock from the excruciating pain and die . It 's strange , though , how the mind forgets pain . I ca n't remember how badly it really hurt . " Today , Tom Smith lives with another kind of pain : the pain of having to ask friends to drive deer to him ; then , if he 's lucky , to drag the animal to his vehicle for tagging and dressing . The pain of being left outside because doorways are n't wide enough . And Smith lives with frustration . One time he watched through the rearview mirror of his pickup truck while a six-point buck boldly stared over the tailgate at him and then sauntered off . It was as though the buck knew that Smith could n't turn around and shoot . Despite such difficulties , Smith refuses to stop deer hunting . In fact , the anticipation of getting back outdoors is what helped him through the difficult period of readjustment . The year after his accident , Smith was back in the woods , but he wore a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and has taken two more does and a six-point buck since . " I had 10 times the luck before my injury , " Smith said . " My handicap makes hunting deer a whole lot harder than ever before , but it 's better than not hunting at all . " Special dispensations to state laws , such as allowing hunters with disabilities to use their stationary vehicles as blinds ( legal in 34 states ) and to use crossbows if they are unable to pull longbows ( legal in 37 states ) , help hunters like Smith . Specialty clothing and products assist many other sportsmen with disabilities in their outdoor pursuits . Personal determination , however , is the biggest motivator . Sheer guts drove a North Dakota hunter who had lost both arms in the spring of 1992 to gun hunt for deer this past fall . In his mouth he held a string that was rigged to the trigger of his rifle . Determination is the reason why a blind hunter from Wisconsin has bagged 15 deer and two black bears in the past 15 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want anyone 's pity . What they want is equal access to the outdoors . This is the goal of some advocacy groups like Outdoors Forever of East Lansing , Michigan . Outdoors Forever was philosophically opposed to a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service special deer hunt on the Shiawassee National Wildlife Refuge near Saginaw . Why ? " Special hunts and fishing contests that teach disabled folks how to hunt or fish are fine , " said Roger McCarville , an amputee who helped start Outdoors Forever in 1986 . " But most of these activities are segregated , and that 's not what the ADA Americans with Disabilities Act is all about . We want to be included , not excluded . The outdoors is there for all of us to enjoy . " Although he appreciates what the Fish and Wildlife Service and other agencies are doing , McCarville says that the groups are behind the times . " Once disabled people get a taste of hunting and fishing , they want more . It 's not enough to take a handicapped kid fishing , pat him on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tell him , " See you next year . ' ' " The law rests with McCarville . When courts ruled that the 1964 Civil Rights Act did n't apply to citizens with disabilities , Congress passed the Architectural Barriers Act , which required that federal buildings be fully accessible . This occurred in 1968 . Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 extended the mandate to any federally funded facility , program or activity . The sweeping Americans with Disabilities Act , which President Bush signed into law in July 1990 , expanded the requirements to provide people with disabilities access  --  not just assistance  --  to all public facilities and many private and commercial ones . Economically , the new law makes sense . As Bush stated at the historic signing , the United States spends $200 billion each year keeping people with disabilities dependent . Many people , for example , lose benefits from Social Security , Medicaid and various social services if they go to work . Insurance companies , which stand to gain the most from full implementation of the ADA , spend millions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Wherever possible , increasing these individuals ' quality of life to include such things as outdoor recreation could save an enormous amount of money . According to the National Board of Tourism and other sources , in the 1990s , tourists with disabilities could spend $15 billion each year while traveling . Once the ADA becomes fully implemented , this figure is expected to double . Active hunters , anglers , campers and others know the value of outdoor recreation to body , mind and spirit . A day in the woods or on a lake always beats working in the office or mowing the lawn . If you have a disability , it 's usually less expensive to go hunting or fishing than it is to remain in a hospital bed or a nursing home . It 's healthier , too . Unlike people with diseases and physical problems that get worse with age , many people with disabilities grow stronger the more they exercise and the more recreational options they pursue . The ADA is quickly changing the way people with disabilities merge into general society  --  changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country . But the new law allows up to a $5,000 federal tax credit ( and up to a $15,000 deduction ) for owners of resorts , lodges and other businesses willing to make existing facilities more accessible . And the anticipated increase in more business is already fueling a mini boom in construction remodeling . State game and fish departments around the country face a tougher demand . The ADA requires them and the federal agencies to self-evaluate their programs and facilities to determine degrees of accessibility . Then they must file transition plans that spell out what they need to do and how and when they intend to do it . New facilities must be fully accessible ( as must those in the private sector ) . Like so many federally mandated laws , though , there is a lack of information on the subject . What constitutes a fully accessible duck blind on a state-managed wetland in Mississippi , for example ? And , as usual , Congress has been stingy in handing over the necessary funds . So sportsmen , with and without disabilities , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aid in Wildlife Restoration program ( more commonly referred to as the Pittman-Robertson program ) has generated funds through excise taxes on sporting arms and ammunition . The Sport Fish Restoration Act of 1950 ( usually called Dingell-Johnson , or D-J ) tacks a 10 percent excise tax on fishing rods , reels and certain equipment . In 1984 , the Wallop-Breaux amendment extended the D-J assessment to include other types of fishing gear and a portion of the federal tax on motorboat fuels . By law , 10 percent of all restoration money must be spent on projects aimed at providing boating access to public waters . Preliminary findings of the Fish and Wildlife Service , which administers this money to the states , show that in 1991 more than 98 million Americans participated in some wildlife-related activity . They spent $59.5 billion . An estimated 39 million anglers and hunters shelled out an average of $1,057 each ( $41 billion total ) . A whopping 43 percent of that money went directly for equipment . Many public access sites throughout the country were built by the Civilian Conservation Corps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully accessible ) being applied to both new construction and renovation projects has the potential to benefit more than half of the country 's citizens . The Department of the Interior , which oversees the National Park Service , the Fish and Wildlife Service and seven other federal agencies , estimates that as much as 57 percent of all Americans either have significant disabilities ( 37 percent ) , have temporary disabilities ( 10 percent ) , or are older than age 65 ( 10 percent ) . Interior studies also show that if accessibility is provided at the design stage , the extra cost to include it is 1 percent or less of the total tab . Designing a boat launch so that the slope is not too steep is one example . Including a few picnic tables and grills so that someone in a wheelchair can reach them is another . People with hand or finger disabilities find door handles work better than door knobs . Hard-surface trails , level camping and shore-fishing sites , and signage in braille are other amenities greatly appreciated by people with disabilities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noticed a pair of older anglers dressing walleyes while sitting in lawn chairs at the low-built , wheelchair-accessible end of a fish cleaning station . Those of us who have been laid up temporarily with a bad back or other body injury have a clue as to what sportsmen with disabilities face each day . Still , if we spent a single day in a wheelchair , we would soon learn to appreciate such things as the absence of spaces between boards on a fishing dock . We 'd know what it was like to watch our monofilament through a railing built too high . We 'd learn firsthand how hard it is to access a pier when a four-inch step separates it from the pathway . " Every agency is in the dark ages at this moment , " according to Sloan Lessley , a fisheries biologist with the Arkansas Game and Fish Commission . " It is n't that they 're not trying , but providing access has always been on the back burner . The law ADA has put it on the front burner . " Lessley , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , has hunted and fished in Nebraska , Florida and Arkansas . He uses the term " whole access " to describe simple designs that allow kids and older people , as well as individuals with disabilities , to use facilities . " Access is not a showy thing , " Lessley said . " Although we have many fine fishing piers that cost a lot of money , I 'm not in favor of monumental things . What we need are simple improvements , like easier grades and signage . " Because he has a disability , Lessley serves as a conduit for information , and he advises managers and planners throughout the nation . " The people I run into do n't need sensitivity training , " Lessley said . " They 're all sensitive . It 's time to start doing something about it . " Much of the sporting public , on the other hand , is a step behind on sensitivity . Those with experience say that empathy , not just sympathy , can come only by helping those less fortunate . About 10 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an annual antelope hunt in Douglas , Wyoming , for hunters with permanent disabilities . Over the years , about 100 people , including women and elderly men to age 70 , have participated . Some had been injured in Vietnam . A few had multiple sclerosis ( MS ) . One was a former rodeo clown thrown by a rampaging bull . " It all started from a letter that a reader in West Virginia wrote , " Zumbo said . " He wondered why we did n't do more stories on hunters with disabilities . " On the inaugural hunt , Zumbo and two others helped one of the participants , a man who had an advanced case of MS , bag an antelope . The driver of the vehicle steadied the rifle , and the hunter 's wife put her finger over her husband 's on the trigger . Zumbo helped protect the man from the recoil . " Sharing that experience was the most humanitarian thing I 've ever done in my life , " Zumbo said . Letters that Outdoor Life readers have written to Zumbo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Roseburg , Oregon , for example , told about hunting with a blind companion during the past 15 years and helping him harvest a pair of big mule deer , several blacktails and an elk . " John Malkow and I travel through the woods as quietly as most single hunters , " Hutchison wrote . " He keeps his right hand on my right shoulder and responds to my body movements and signals that we have developed . One signal consists of me lightly tapping my toe on a fallen log as I step over it . John hears the tap , finds the log with his foot , and steps over it also . " The .30-06 rifle that Malkow built for himself has a left-handed cheekpiece . He holds the gun to his shoulder like a right-handed shooter , but keeps his head off the stock and his left arm free . This allows Hutchison , who leans in from the right side , to swing the rifle , place his right hand on the scope , center the crosshairs , and whisper , " Now . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind me in the woods than 99 percent of the people I have hunted with , " Hutchison said . " I never find his rifle pointed at me , and he does n't chamber a round until he is ready to shoot . He 's also handy at leading me out of the pole thickets . " Organizations are springing up all over the country as non-disabled sportsmen want to help hunters and fishermen with disabilities . Sid Sellers , who started Outdoor Buddies , was a non-disabled hunter working as a volunteer at the Craig Rehabilitation Hospital in Colorado . Six years ago , he got the idea to take patients in wheelchairs hunting . Working with Sam Andrews , director of therapeutic recreation at the hospital , Sellers set up a hunt for antelope . One of the hunters , a quadriplegic with polio in his mid-40s , had done some shooting but had never hunted . " When that husky , 225-pound bearded man got tears in his eyes and his voice quavered , " Sellers said , " I got a lump in my own throat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buddies , which matches hunters with disabilities with non-disabled sportsmen , is entirely funded by donations . There are no fees to join or dues to pay . The mailing list has grown to 600 people , about half of whom have disabilities . A Nebraska chapter now has about 60 members and is run by Gerald Johnson , a paraplegic from North Platte . Johnson first met Sellers at the Craig hospital , and after bagging a 6X6 bull elk was sold on the program . " To be able to assist a fellow disabled hunter as though I was able-bodied is an unbelievable experience , " Johnson said . Interviews for this article turned up many similar heartwarming stories . But there are controversial issues involved with making the outdoors accessible to all . Besides the challenges of retro-fitting existing facilities and sites that are not accessible  --  and finding the money to do it  --  there are other concerns . Some states , for example , are finding that if their special laws aimed at helping sportsmen with disabilities are not carefully written , some non-disabled individuals will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 10 percent of the hundreds of applications it receives each year for permission to use vehicles as hunting blinds . " The negative side of accessibility may not be the guy in the wheelchair , " said Ken Moum , an information specialist with the South Dakota Department of Game , Fish and Parks , " but the guy who acts like he is and wants to be treated as such . " The Michigan Department of Natural Resources requires its conservation officers to personally investigate each request for exemption from the hunting and fishing laws . " We know there are doctors out there who will routinely approve their patients for special treatment , even if they do n't qualify , " said Bruce Gustafson of the DNR law enforcement division . " Because the doctors have no stake in the issue , they have nothing to lose . " Another issue is whether or not to allow motorized access to fragile wetlands or grasslands for hunters with disabilities . Most states give full authority to local property managers , who then must defend their decisions to hunters with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that people with disabilities receive . A similar problem crops up when agencies barricade roads to sensitive public lands . Cables , gates and mounds of earth may discourage some people from tearing up trails and fragile environments with all-terrain vehicles , but they also bar qualified sportsmen with disabilities from any access at all . Compounding the problem are recessionary budget cuts that have trimmed the number of law enforcement officers available to police such access sites . To get around this , some game and fish departments provide access keys to hunters and anglers with disabilities . Other agencies are considering removing the barricades altogether and beefing up trespassing fines , which they will then share with informants . As implementation of the Americans with Disabilities Act continues , these and other problems will surface . Simply the awareness that a problem exists , however , is always the first step toward solving it . Last year at the SHOT ( Shooting , Hunting , Outdoor Trade ) Show , a hunter with a disability asked a manufacturer of topographical maps if he realized that the most important symbol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's that ? " the mapmaker wondered . " The symbol for handicap-accessible . " Information and education is helping change how the nation 's hunters , anglers , campers and boaters with disabilities access the outdoors . It is also helping people with disabilities to get to know each other . " That 's why all of us are starting to beat the same drum , " said Arkansas " Sloan Lessley . A SECOND SHOT The world of competitive clay-target shooting is not an easy one to " break " into . Proper form and style often take years to develop , and shooting averages can plummet in just a few off days . Thus , when a 1989 shooting accident claimed all but the pinkie finger on the right hand of state , national and North American sporting clays champion Jon Kruger , some doubted whether the St. Ansgar , Iowa , man would ever shoot again . Kruger , however , had other ideas . Having been a right-handed shooter , he at first tried switching to shooting lefty . That did n't work . His next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand ( which at the time was still in a cast ) to hook and pull the trigger . That was better . Today he wears a batting glove with Velcro on its palm , and by placing the glove against his Velcro-covered gunstock , Kruger is able to hold the shotgun securely and pull the trigger with his little finger . Evidence that the efforts paid off came just six weeks after the accident , when Kruger won the Minnesota State Sporting Clays Championship . That victory was followed by several other state championship wins , and then with top honors in the National Skeet Shooting Association 's World Sporting Clays Championship  --  only four months after the accident . Since then Kruger has won various state and national titles , and has served as captain of the National Sporting Clays Association 's All-American Team for three years running . Last year he enjoyed an overall shooting average of 91 percent ! A recently released instructional video called " Secrets To Success " features Kruger 's tips on shooting sporting clays . It is available for $62.95 postpaid from Sunrise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 800-862-6399 ) .  --  Ralph P. Stuart , Senior Editor . THE UNIVERSAL-DESIGN CONCEPT Someday the nation 's outdoor recreation sites will feature a single accessibility sign at the entrance to the area instead of individual postings at particular campsites and other facilities . Young and old alike , non-disabled parents pushing a baby stroller , and all visitors with disabilities will use facilities designed for everyone . That is one philosophy of the universal-design concept . Tying facilities to various levels of access is another . Although there is no such thing as a moderately difficult toilet or bathroom , there is a need to address low , moderate and high degrees of accessibility . " Our aim is to come up with facilities that everyone can use while respecting the spectrum of skill , risk and challenge , " said Joe Meade , national accessibility program manager for the Forest Service . People with disabilities look for choices , just like non-disabled individuals . The universal-design idea provides urban ( easy ) , natural ( moderate ) and semi-primitive and primitive ( difficult ) access , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Lack of knowledge made us overdesign in the past , " Meade admitted . " Our new aim is to bring designers and disabled consumers together to provide the spectrum of choice . " The federal Access Board , which has the responsibility of overseeing the implementation of the Americans with Disabilities Act , has yet to approve standards . These standards are , however , forthcoming . In the interim , agency planners and managers are relying on guidelines from several sources . Sport Fish Restoration dollars , for example , recently helped pay for a booklet on barrier-free boating and fishing facilities . For more information on a variety of options , contact the States Organization for Boating Access , Box 25655 , Washington , D.C. 20007 . The Forest Service is working with several other Department of the Interior agencies to publish the Design Guide For Universal Access To Outdoor Recreation . To get on the mailing list , contact Joe Meade , U.S.D.A. Forest Service , Box 96090 , Washington , D.C. 20250 ( 202-205-1760 ) . Accessible Fishing  --  A Planning Handbook offers suggestions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is available to interested groups or individuals from the New Mexico Natural Resources Department , Management and Development Div. , Suite 129 , Villagra Bldg. , Santa Fe , NM 87504 . THE ROLE OF FEDERAL AGENCIES Several federal agencies are playing an active role in making the outdoors accessible to all . These agencies should serve as examples to others who want to do their part to open opportunities for people with disabilities . The Bureau of Reclamation oversees 300 recreation areas  --  more than 50 of which are accessible  --  in 17 Western states . The bureau has spearheaded a new program called ADMS ( Accessibility Data Management System ) , which provides a toll-free number for information about recreation accessibility throughout the nation . For more information , contact the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation , Pacific Northwest Region , Box 043 , 550 W. Fort St. , Boise , ID 83724 ( 208-334-9680 ) . The Bureau of Land Management ( BLM ) is responsible for managing 270 million acres of land , mostly in the western U.S. The BLM is working with Amerifish Corporation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fishing Has No Boundaries program . For more information , contact the U.S. Bureau of Land Management , Div. of Recreation and Wilderness Resources , 1849 C St. N.W. ( LS302 ) , Washington , D.C. 20240 ( 202-658-8828 ) . In conjunction with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service , the National Park Service has announced nine new projects that are either on line or are planned to provide barrier-free fishing facilities . For more information , contact the National Park Service , Box 37127 , Washington , D.C. 20013 ( 202-208-6843 ) . The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is developing accessible fishing facilities at 130-acre O'Neal Lake in Tennessee 's Hatchie National Wildlife Refuge . The proposed facility will incorporate the latest designs to meet the needs of visitors with disabilities . For more information on O'Neal Lake and other projects , write the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service , 1849 C St. N.W. , Room 3245 , Washington , D.C. 20240 . The Forest Service is responsible for managing the nation 's forests and grasslands . The agency is taking a leadership role in developing the universal-design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For more information , contact the U.S. Forest Service , Box 96090 , Washington , D.C. 20090 ( 202-205-1760 ) . The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers provides a number of sporting opportunities on the many reservoirs and surrounding lands that it manages . For more information , write the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers , Pulaski Bldg. , 20 Massachusetts Ave . N.W. , Washington , D.C. 20314 . ASSISTANCE FOR SPORTSMEN WITH DISABILITIES The following groups and organizations offer assistance and opportunities to the nation 's hunters and anglers with disabilities . ( For more information on activities and organizations in your state , refer to " Access For All " on page 85 . ) Accent on Living Box 700 Bloomington , IL 61702 ( Readers are people with physical disabilities , parents of disabled children , and specialists and counselors in the field of rehabilitation . ) American Canoe Association 7432 Alban Station Blvd . Suite B-226 Springfield , VA 22150 703-451-0141 Camp ASCCA  --  Easter Seals Box 21 Jackson Gap , AL 36861 205-825-9226 ( Year-round outdoor educational and recreational facilities annually serving 8,000 people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17000 Patterson Rd . Odessa , FL 33556 813-920-2737 ( In conjunction with the Trap Shooting Hall of Fame , sponsors annual Chairshoot for people in wheelchairs . ) Disabled Boaters And Campers News Box 173 Lyons , IL 60534 ( Periodically publishes a newsletter . ) Disabled Outdoors Magazine 2052 W. 23rd St. Chicago , IL 60608 708-358-4160 ( Quarterly magazine of 5,000 circulation . ) Fishing Has No Boundaries Box 375 Hayward , WI 54843 715-634-3185 ( Sponsors fishing events in Wisconsin , Wyoming , South Dakota , Minnesota and Illinois . ) National Association of Handicapped Outdoor Sportsmen Inc . R.R. 6 , Box 25 Centralia , IL 62801 618-532-4565 National Wheelchair Shooting Federation 3595 E. Fountain Blvd . Suite L-1 Colorado Springs , CO 80910 719-574-1150 Outdoor Buddies Box 37283 Denver , CO 80237 303-771-8216 ( Matches non-disabled hunters with sportsmen with disabilities . ) Outdoors Forever Box 4832 East Lansing , MI 48823 517-337-0018 ( Advocacy group working for inclusion , rather than exclusion , in outdoor recreation programs and facilities . Publishes a quarterly newsletter . ) Palaestra Box 508 Macomb , IL 61455 309-833-1902 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Recreation For The Disabled is a quarterly journal for people with multidisabilities . ) Paralyzed Veterans of America ( PVA ) 801 18th St. N.W. Washington , D.C. 20006 202-USA-1300 ( A broad-based organization with 44 chapters and 14,000 members . Publishes the monthly Paraplegia News and bi-monthly Sports " N Spokes . ) PVA Central Florida Chapter 2711 South Design Court Sanford , FL 32773 407-328-7041 ( Sponsors the PVA U.S. Open Bass Tournament . ) Shake-A-Leg Box 1002 Newport , RI 02840 401-849-8898 ( Working to improve opportunities for boaters with disabilities . ) Special K Ranch Attn : Wallace Bradberry Box 372 Billings , MT 59103 406-255-7476 ( Sponsors a 17-hour , 17 Montana rivers fishing marathon to fund this working ranch for adults with disabilities . ) Wilderness Inquiry 1313 Fifth St. S.E. Box 84 Minneapolis , MN 55414 800-728-0719 ; 612-379-3858 ( Organizes and arranges outdoor adventures for 2,500 people with disabilities each year . Publishes a quarterly schedule of events . ) PRODUCTS FOR SPORTSMEN WITH DISABILITIES For years hunters and anglers with disabilities have learned how to either rig gear to suit their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Shooting , Hunting , Outdoor Trade ) Show a hunter with a disability showed one of the manufacturers a special trigger release that he had made . " Neat , " the manufacturer said . " But there 's not enough interest . It will never sell . " He was wrong . A growing number of companies are just now realizing how untapped the market is for products designed with disabilities in mind . Meet George " Sandy " Duffy Jr. , whose legs were paralyzed in a car accident in 1969 . A lifelong hunter and fisherman , Duffy refused to give up his beloved sports , even though he broke seven wheelchairs over a 14-year period while pursuing them . " It was n't my lifestyle that was wrong , " Duffy said . " The industry figured it was better for me to stay on flat land I could n't agree . " Angry and frustrated , Duffy began talking with engineering friends and tinkering with designs . Six years ago he took a prototype of his now famous Iron Horse wheelchair ( see photograph on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Yellowstone River . ( Photograph omitted ) With front wheels raised and rear tires grabbing for traction in the stream bed , the chair did its job , and access to the outdoors by people with disabilities has never been the same . Two years later , with the Iron Horse in full production , Duffy was named Handicapper Entrepreneur of the Year by the Handicapper Small Business Association . His rugged , folding-style chairs , each with an independent four-wheel suspension system and sealed front-caster bearings , are used in some of the world 's most remote places . For a catalog or more information , write Iron Horse Productions , 2624 Connor St. , Port Huron , MI 48060 . More products are introduced every year . Coleman 's new Evergreen model is the first fold-down camping trailer with accessible design . An optional 64 X 40-inch ramp for wheelchair users is available . For more information , contact Fleetwood Folding Trailers Inc. , Rte. 2 , Box 111 , Somerset , PA 15501 ( 814-445-9661 ) . The Quail Mobile is a Ford Model 1220 four-wheel-drive tractor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and shell box designed for field use . For more information , contact the Wharton Tractor Company , Wharton , TX 77488 ( 409-532-3172 ) . Anglers with severe disabilities might be interested in Ken 's Power Caster , which uses an electric motor for casting and retrieving and which comes with either chin or sip-and-puff controls . For more information , contact the Leisure Company , 4189 Chatford Cove , Tucker , GA 30084 ( 404-496-5948 ) . Equalizer Sports ( Box 1324 , Elk Mound , WI 54739 ; 715-879-5636 ) makes a custom-built , all-wheel-drive vehicle for people with disabilities . The company also sells Russell hunting boots and Barbour outdoor clothing designed for disabled sportsmen . One of the best sources for camping , boating , hunting and fishing products is J. L. Pachner Ltd. , 13 Via Di Nola , Laguna Niguel , CA 92677 ( 714-363-9831 ) . Among the many specialty products listed in the company 's catalog are rod holders , knot tiers , line threaders , portable toilets , hunting chairs and wheelchair lifts . Hard-core sportsmen are always trying to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must try harder , often by necessity . Don Basye , a quadriplegic from Temperance , Michigan , uses a special wrist release with adjustable trigger to shoot his standard Oneida Aero-Force bow , which has a changeable module and a two-inch overdraw . For firearms hunting he uses a custom-fitted Remington Model 700 rifle and a Model 878 semi-automatic shotgun with a modified rifled barrel . Someday , manufacturers will offer such specialty products as a matter of course . <p>                     