@@332650

Something quite fundamental has changed during the past year in the way Washington deals with arms control , and it was apparent last week in the lengthy and excruciatingly nuanced reply by President Reagan to the letter that Soviet Leader Mikhail Gorbachev sent him in June . For the first time in the history of nuclear diplomacy , the U.S. has been responding to Soviet proposals rather than taking the initiative . Moreover , the American response has frequently been delayed , tentative and ambiguous . In chess terms , it is as though , after years of playing white , making bold opening moves , the U.S. has elected to play black , letting the U.S.S.R. advance its pieces toward the center of the board while the U.S. counters with pawns . <P> Since the two sides returned to the negotiating table early last year , the Soviets have produced a flurry of proposals setting forth the broad outlines of the socalled grand compromise : Moscow would agree to significant reductions in offensive weaponry primarily affecting its land-based missile arsenal if Washington would agree to curtail its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a space-based antimissile shield . Gorbachev 's letter proposed linking cuts in offensive missiles to an agreement by both countries to honor for at least 15 more years the 1972 antiballistic-missi le agreement , which would confine SDI to laboratory research and prohibit development , testing and deployment . As Reagan was taking flak at home and abroad for announcing that he planned to abandon the SALT II treaty , Gorbachev showed new signs of flexibility at the Geneva arms-control talks . <P> Reagan 's response  --  which he amplified in a presidential directive to American negotiators in Geneva  --  inches the U.S. position toward the Soviet one on some issues relating to offensive weapons ; it would , for example , ease the American insistence on a ban against mobile long-range missiles . But in the all-important area of strategic defense , Reagan is still holding back . <P> He indicated a willingness to amend the ABM treaty to tighten some of its imprecisions and extend the period of notice each side would have to give before withdrawing from the treaty . This willingness to dicker with Moscow over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hint to the Soviets that the U.S. may be prepared to agree later to a longterm restriction of SDI . So it may be . But the fact remains that the U.S. is still playing hard to get on SDI . The Administration had long since reaffirmed a policy of abiding by the ABM treaty , and the terms of the treaty itself call for periodic review of compliance and applicability to new systems ( the third review is scheduled for next year ) . Therefore Reagan 's willingness to discuss differences of interpretation makes explicit something that was already implicit in U.S. policy . While Reagan may have touched the SDI piece , he has yet to move it forward .                     