@@494450

BEHIND THE DEATH SQUADS BY CHRISTOPHER DICKEY THE FIRST " death squad " victims I ever saw in San 1 Salvador , some four years ago , were two men slumped in a car beneath a little tree on a quiet residential street . Their heads had been blown apart with West German G-3 assault rifles as they drove home from work . Children stood around eyeing the mutilation curiously , impassively , and an old woman , indignant at the horror , took me by the hand and led me toward a green stucco wall where a crude skull was drawn like the cave painting of a primitive tribe . A handful of brains had been thrown into the middle as a grisly signature . New to the ways of El Salvador , I wondered what kind of men could make up this " death squad , " this " Union of White Warriors " as it called itself at the time , and I accepted the explanation of the government and of the U.S. Embassy that the murderers were mysterious agents of " the ultra right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me the death squad slaughter was the work of the left which killed its own leaders in order to discredit the right . ( President Reagan recently revived this hypothesis in a chat with a group of schoolchildren visiting Washington . ) But as the death toll mounted that year and the next and the next , and the slaughter was blamed repeatedly on those same unknowable death squads , it became apparent that these explanations were a dodge . In Christopher Dickey , who covered El Salvador for The Washington Post for four years , is the Edward R. Murrow Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York . Washington the term " death squad " was used to cover a host of evils with which no one wanted U.S. policy identified . But the " escuadrOn de In muerte , " as it is understood in El Salvador and as it concerns the United States right now , is a phenomenon distinct from the more general violence and methods of repression . When a score of peasants were machine-gunned in the town of San Nicolas last month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but of a U.S.-trained " rapid reaction battalion " that regularly kills the families and camp followers of the rebels . When two peasants in the village of San Simon had their heads blown off by late-night visitors in August , it was in fact the guerrillas " bringing them to justice " for collaborating with the government . in a highly publicized case last year , when a dozen people were dragged from their homes in the San Antonio Abaci slum and slaughtered by a unit from the capital 's First Brigade , it was not a death squad either . As one high-ranking civilian in the government said later , " That was just stupid . " The truth is that the death squads the Reagan Administration has come to be so concerned about in recent weeks are a political tool used with considerable precision to achieve particular political effects . Sometimes , despite Washington 's protestations to the contrary , the squads have served its short-term interests . The most obvious example was in 1980 , when they helped crush the urban bases of the guerrillas . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' activities has been used to challenge directly the influence of the United States in El Salvador . They have forced at least one American journalist out of the country . They have threatened a prominent labor leader supported by the U.S. Embassy and the A.F.L.-C.I.O . And some of the key figures linked to death squads in the past are now maneuvering into a position of control over the armed forces . The Administration , at first seemingly oblivious to the death squads ' political ambitions , is now locked in a subtle battle with forces behind them to decide whether its men or theirs will determine the future of the Salvadoran government . That is why Under Secretary of Defense Fred C. lkle , in a sudden trip last month to El Salvador , denounced right-wing " extremists , " calling them " fascists " who ultimately serve the interests of the guerrillas . That is why suddenly , months after the fact , the news was leaked by the State Department that the Salvadoran authorities had tortured a confession out of the wrong man in the case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ d'Aubuisson , the president of the Salvadoran Constituent Assembly , was just denied a visa to the United States . Nonetheless , diplomatic signals are not the strong point of the death squads on either the sending or the receiving end . Just how serious the Reagan Administration is about winning this battle remains in doubt . To understand the current convolutions of U.S. policy in El Salvador , one must first understand how the death squads function , who is behind them , and why they do what they do . There are several doors into the world of the assassins , and slowly the State Department is opening some of them as a means of moving outside the confines of the ineffectual Salvadoran legal system . Other doors , no doubt , it would prefer to keep shut . The names , connections , and patterns concealed behind them reveal the rot at the core of El Salvador 's violent politics . There is a dreadful intimacy to Salvadoran society . Fewer than five thousand people have a voice in running the country . Traditionally those who participated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repression . They were outside what Graham Greene calls " the torturable class . " But the death squads are the weapon some members of the elite use to eliminate others viewed as less committed than they to the fight against " communism . " Their victims are the people among whom Washington searches for its ephemeral political " center , " the 6 percent of Salvadoran society that earns more than $240 a month ? its bureaucrats and office workers , labor organizers , professionals and politicians , priests , and even soldiers . This is why the death squads still have such an impact on a society that any outsider might think had become inured to blood . Those who are not killed are threatened . A member of the Constituent Assembly was addressing the floor one evening in October during a heated debate on land reform when the phone in front of him rang . If he did not shut up , the voice warned him , something serious would happen to his family . A senior army officer in charge of one of the state-owned utilities recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of an old classmate in the Salvadoran military academy . A prominent lawyer got an anonymous note calling him a communist and vowing to eliminate him . " It looks like a form letter , " he noted ruefully . Still , he was scared . The broad origins of the death squads can be traced far back in Salvadoran history , to the fierce " anticommunist " suppression of a peasant uprising in 1932 by General Maximiliano Hernandez Martinez . And one can talk , as the United States Embassy often does when it gets uncomfortable with the statistics on the slaughter , about a " culture of violence . " But it is most useful to look at the history of El Salvador 's three " security forces . " Here is where the death squads were born . Repression was always the raison d'estre of the Guardia Nacional . Its black-helmeted troops were organized around the turn of the century expressly to control the countryside after the small ruling class evicted thousands of peasants from what had been communal properties . The Treasury Police started as what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peasants who produced their own alcohol , But they evolved into the most select and brutal of the security forces : " a secret society like the S.S. , " said one U.S. diplomat who studied them . The National Police were charged with keeping the cities quiet . But they also developed a " National Center for Analysis and Investigations " known by its Spanish acronym CAIN . Even when they functioned officially under orders of the government , all three police forces often identified their interests most closely with the landowners and industrialists whose properties they protected . Some Salvadoran officers suggest that this collaboration is the root of all the evil . " There is always a quantity of surplus guardias and Treasury Police who are paid by the owners of a factory or a sugar refinery or a coffee processing plant to take care of , for instance , the airplanes and airstrips . The great landowners always had members of the Guardia on their estates whom they were paying and to whom the Guardia Nacional itself only gave rifles and uniforms and a certain administrative control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said one of El Salvador 's senior military officers . " Naturally the minute the conflict intensified and the left began to put on pressure , murdering anyone in a uniform and that sort of thing , then all the vendettas began , and naturally they the guardias identified more with the patron than with the policy of the armed forces . That 's where the complicity is , precisely , of the security forces . " Perhaps . But such a picture , which essentially exculpates the officer corps , breaks down when you ask how the death squads target their victims . The officer chose his words carefully . " That is one of the irrefutable arguments about them , " he said slowly , not wanting to elaborate further . " Certainly they do have good information , very good information . " Another of the better informed officials in the government , a civilian with detailed knowledge of the military , was more candid . " Anywhere you hear there is a group " ( that is , a death squad ) , he said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the intelligence unit . I N TRACING the background of today 's death squads , the first dark constellations of names appear around General Jos ? Alberto " Chele " Medrano , the mastermind of El Salvador 's relentless campaigns against " communist subversion " in the late 1960s and early 1970s . By most accounts Chele was a genius of sorts , the founder of an infamous network of domestic political intelligence and coercion known as ORDEN . According to U.S. officials in San Salvador , Medrano in his heyday often referred to three of his more capable junior officers as " rnis tres asesinos " : my three murderers . One was named Eduardo Avila . Another was Guillermo Antonio Roeder . The third was Roberto d'Aubuisson , Avila is now in hiding , or perhaps dead , having left behind a trail of crimes leading from El Salvador to Costa Rica to Guatemala . Roeder is in jail , after being forced offactive duty for corruption deemed exceptional even by Salvadoran standards , and founding a private security business which doubled as a kidnapping ring . Roberto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation in elections scheduled for March 1984 . To be sure , as he often points out , none of the many allegations about his involvement with the death squads those same allegations that were cited when Washington denied him a visa last month ? have ever been proved . But the evidence is , to say the least , suggestive , and any attempt to describe the development of the death squads must incorporate d'Aubuisson 's career as its leitmotif . During the 1970s a special political police force called ANSESAL was developed as part of the presidential staff to handle information gathered in secret cells and torture chambers . D'Aubuisson , after police training by the United States and Taiwan and a stint at the Guardia Nacional 's intelligence unit , became the second-in-command of the special force . But d'Aubuisson had some liabilities as an intelligence officer : a reputation for drinking too much , womanizing too much , and talking too much . W HEN THE October 15 , 1979 , coup ousted the presi- ent d'Aubuisson served , the ambitious major nevertheless knew how to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advised Colonel Jaime Abdul Gutierrez , a conservative and one of the coup 's principal organizers , that the ANSESAL files should be removed before they could fall into the hands of the communist rebels , many of whose closest allies were being brought into the government as part of a short-lived attempt at serious pluralism . Gutierrez told d'Aubuisson to get the files and take them to the headquarters of the armed forces general staff . But Gutierrez apparently did not anticipate that d'Aubuisson would keep the most important dossiers for himself . A few days later , d'Aubuisson asked to be discharged because , he said , he could n't go along with the left-wing leanings of the new government . Within a matter of weeks d'Aubuisson was appearing on nationwide television , his time paid for by some of El Salvador 's wealthy families , making detailed denunciations of " subversives " inside and outside the government . Several of the people he denounced were killed shortly thereafter by the death squads . For most Salvadorans the year that followed was a time of unprecedented fear . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure from conservative officers , the first liberal coalition government disintegrated after ten weeks . Far from curing the violence , the U.S.-endorsed coup had turned it into an epidemic . The level of repression under the new government was stunning . Mutilated bodies turned up by the dozens every morning on the streets of San Salvador . The enduring image of El Salvador as a place of unremitting horror was well earned that year as the military set about systematically exterminating the urban organizations of the left . The death squads were a major part of this action , and no one was beyond their reach . In February 1980 , Mario Zamora Rivas , a member of the cabinet and a leader of the Christian Democratic Party , was denounced in one of d'Aubuisson 's televised broadcasts . A few days later two men who worked in Zamora 's office , one of whom resembled him slightly , were blown away with G-3s on a quiet residential street in the capital as they were driving home from work . Several nights after that a hit team broke into Zamora @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with friends . They made everyone lie down on the floor and identify himself ? " We do n't want any mistakes , " they said ? then dragged Zamora into the bathroom and destroyed his face with a dozen bullets . In March , Archbishop Oscar Romero , the most powerful moral voice and probably the most potent single political force in the country , was shot through the heart with a single high-velocity bullet while saying a memorial mass one night in the chapel of the hospice where he lived . In November , Enrique Alvarez , a rare liberal member of one of El Salvador 's wealthy families , and Juan Chadm , a charismatic Marxist organizer , were abducted in the capital in broad daylight along with three other leaders of the guerrilla-allied Revolutionary Democratic Front . All were strangled and shot by a group calling itself the Maximiliano Hernandez Martinez Brigade , after the dictator of the 1930s . A few days later , Americans started to die in El Salvador . Nuns . A journalist . Labor advisers . D ' AUBU1SSON was officially an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had flatly declared him the leader of the death squads . U.S. Ambassador Robert White called him a " pathological killer . " Yet the one time d'Aubuisson was captured , in May 1980 , he was held for only a few days . A majority of the officer corps voted to release their old colleague and the eleven active duty officers captured with him , despite the vehement opposition of White and the U.S. Embassy . Meanwhile , the man who ordered the arrest , liberal Colonel Adolfo Majano , saw his own authority in the government junta effectively ended by the affair . In this major showdown with the moderates and the embassy , the ultra-rightists had won . The reformist leaders of the 1979 coup were steadily losing power , and the death squads were a key factor in their decline . Papers seized from d ' Aubuisson and one of his aides the night of the arrests were recognized immediately by the U.S. Embassy as the most important documents existing on the death squads . They contained a number of shopping lists for sophisticated arms , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assassinate the archbishop . They outlined a prospective cabinet for the right-wing government d'Aubuisson hoped to install in a coup . Captain Eduardo Avila , one of the original tres asesinos , was captured with d'Aubuisson that night . So was a young lieutenant named Isidro Lopez Sibrian . A Major Mario Denis Moran was named prominently in thedocuments . He appeared to have connections with a collection of right-wing businessmen involved in a large-scale poultry operation known as " El Granjero , " an enterprise that had reportedly prospered from loans arranged by corrupt officials in the regime ousted by the October 1979 coup . Its general manager was a young man named Hans Christ . At the time , none of these names could be linked to anything very specific . But since then they have turned up in several sinister connections ; especially in the long , slow , often stonewalled investigations into the murders of the Americans . Eight months after d'Aubuisson 's brief arrest , the death squad violence was peaking . On January 3 , 1981 , shortly before midnight , the head of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was having coffee in the Sheraton Hotel with Michael Hammer and Mark Pearlman of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ' s American institute for Free Labor Development when two men burst in and opened fire with silencer-equipped Ingram machine-pistols . The two gunmen were corporals in the Guardia who have since confessed to the killings . One was the bodyguard of Major Mario Denis Moran , the head of Guardia intelligence . The other was the bodyguard of Lieutenant Isidro Lopez Sibrian , Moran 's second-in-command . The enlisted men testified that Lopez Sibrian ordered them to kill Viera and his companions . They said he told them Moran approved the hit , and that they were given the special guns by the infamous Captain Avila . It seems Moran , Lopez Sibrian , and Avila were having a social evening . They and their wives were sitting around the Sheraton coffee shop with Hans Christ and the wealthy young part owner of the hotel who had iust opened a new disco . Testimony in the case suggests that Avila and Lopez Sibrian , assisted by Christ , set up the murder on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Investigators were particularly suspicious of Moran , but they were never able to make a case against him . Lie detector tests suggested that he was somehow unaware of what his aides were up to that night . " The polygraph exam showed no deception , " said one investigator . A diplomat who looked into the case put it another way : " Moran does n't sweat . " T I 1E SHERATON murders were the last of the spectac-ular death squad killings for almost two years . Throughout 1981 and 1982 the kind of killing that had terrorized the capital in 1980 steadily declined . Right-wing assassinations of prominent public figures seemed a thing of the past , even though in the countryside the killing of peasants continued at a steady pace . All statistics showed the death toll declining . Then , last summer , the unique terror of the death squads began again . What happened to curtail their activity , and why did it resume ? First , a brief but complete cut-off of all U.S. aid after the murder of the four American religious workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we 've hit them between the eyes with a two-by-four , " Ambassador Robert White said at the time , " maybe we 've got their attention . " The Christian Democrats in the government , backed up by Washington 's drastic move , were able to force the removal from command positions of several important d'Aubuisson allies . These officers were identifiable less for provable links to the death squads than for their ultra-rightist , or , as 1kle put it last month , their " fascist " ideology . At the top of the list was Colonel Nicolas Carranza , the ideological idol of Salvador 's far right who had figured prominently in the d'Aubuisson papers as a likely member of the right-wing junta he wanted to establish . Carranza was transferred from his post as deputy defense minister to a position as head of the state-owned telecommunications monopoly . Several of the officers who had been arrested with d'Aubuisson or implicated in his papers were also transferred . Some , including Moran and Avila , were sent into " diplomatic exile " outside the country . Second , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repression of 1980 had taken almost ten thousand lives and decimated the guerrillas ' political and military organizations in the cities . After the failure of the rebels ' " final offensive " in mid-January 1981 , they pulled their forces into the mountains to begin developing a new strategy . Many Salvadoran officers were convinced , despite everything the United States said to the contrary , that their brutal tactics had worked . " You try to tell them that the guerrillas are winning the hearts and minds of the people , and they should act the same way . And they say ' No , you 've got to hit them hard . ' They think that by terrifying people you get rid of subversion , " now-exiled Colonel Majano said last year . Third , when moderates in the government try to push ahead with major economic and agrarian reform measures , death squad activity rises . In 1981 and 1982 , despite what the Reagan Administration claimed , there was little dramatic movement on the reforms . Finally , d'Aubuisson decided to try his hand at electoral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fall of 1981 in a conscious effort to make him , as one senior U.S. official put it , " responsible for the constitution . " His old semi-clandestine organization formed the core of a new political party , ARENA . His past sins were forgiven , and suddenly he was no longer an outlaw , even though one of his few potential rivals on the moderate right was assassinated just before the election campaign began . B UT BY 1983 d'Aubuisson 's stake in defending the constitution had declined . He had suffered several political defeats . The military high command and the U.S. Embassy prevented him or any of his candidates from being named president of the country by the Constituent Assembly , even though he headed a coalition with a clear majority . His efforts to repeal the reforms already enacted were thwarted . Then in early 1983 the guerrillas began actively trying to revive their urban operations . There was a resurgence of union activity and organizing in the capital 's slums . As the traditional reasons for terror returned , so did the death squads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ works had another chance to put their theory into practice . Those who had been linked to d'Aubuisson in the past , and who had been shipped out to various backwaters , returned to active command . General Carlos Eugenio Vides Casanova , who had been chief of the Guardia Nacional throughout the period when members of that force were killing the American nuns and labor advisers , was promoted to Defense Minister . Vides Casanova 's first move was to rescue the charismatic Colonel Carranza from the bureaucratic exile to which the Christian Democrats had relegated him . He was placed in charge of that most secretive of the security forces , the Treasury Police . Major Mario Denis Moran was given command of the garrison at Zacatecoluca ( the town , interestingly enough , where the nuns ' case is being tried and from which all jurors will be selected ) . Jorge Adalberto Cruz , a plotter with d'Aubuisson in 1980 , commands the crucial front-line garrison at San Francisco Gotera . Lieutenant Colonel Roberto Maurido Staben , also arrested in 1980 with d'Aubuisson , remains the executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patrolling ? if not contributing to ? the famous death squad dumping ground at El PlayOn a few miles from its headquarters . According to one of the top civilians in the government , " They could n't have come back at a worse time . " By midsummer 1983 , politicians in El Salvador were fully expecting the next moves by ARENA to be violent . As one senior member of the government noted , the rest of the parties were relying on the democratic process to advance their causes ; ARENA had other means at its disposal . M ODERATE CIVILIANS in the government were especially concerned that d'Aubuisson 's allies in the military were positioning themselves to render the outcome of next year 's presidential election completely meaningless . They feared that one of d'Aubuisson 's men would take over the slot of armed forces chief of staff , using the lackluster conduct of the war as their pretext . The armed forces chief of staff controls the only real political power base in the country ? the troops ? and could do so even if a Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the death squad killings and threats became not only a means of intimidating the opposition , undermining the reforms , and eliminating suspected subversives , but of testing the intentions and resolve of the United States . It is crucial to understand that El Salvador 's ultra-rightists view the United States with ill-concealed contempt . They are certain that if Washington would only give them its money and spare them its advice , they could end the communist-led insurgency in short order . A year ago , even when d'Aubuisson had seemed politically weak , the power of the group around him had proved unassailable . Deane Hinton , then U.S. Ambassador , had publicly denounced the " mafia " and " gorillas " of the extreme right as a threat to El Salvador 's future on a par with the communist rebels . But the White House had disavowed Hinton 's speech through press leaks , and Hinton 's effort to have the Salvadoran courts prosecute the officers involved in the Sheraton murders ended in failure . The Reagan Administration spared its advice . During the troubled summer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new ambassador , who had no Latin America experience , on the way in , Washington was blind to the death squads renewed challenge . The U.S.-backed moderates in El Salvador viewed the death squad activity this fall as a test of how much the Reagan Administration could be pushed around . Washington still appears uncertain about how much it wants to push back ? or can . Two incidents in particular demonstrated the Administration 's initial unwillingness to stand up to the death squads . At the beginning of September the Treasury Police announced that they had captured the young guerrilla who killed U.S. military adviser Albert Schaufelberger last spring . Since Carranza 's Treasury Police had held the accused youth in custody for a week , most journalists ? and indeed , several staffers at the embassy ? assumed that his confession had been tortured out of him and that its validity was doubtful . When the guerrillas ' clandestine radio station denied that the boy in custody was one of those who committed the crime , it was reported by the wire services only as a run-of-the-mill daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his intelligence section , Major Jose Ricardo Pozo , called Arthur Allen , the Associated Press bureau chief , to their offices . They accused him of writing " lies " and guerrilla propaganda . When Allen pointed out that the guerrilla denial had already appeared in the official U.S. radio monitoring service report , Carranza and Pozo told him flatly that his security could not be guaranteed in El Salvador anymore . The U.S. Embassy did nothing about Carranza and Pozo 's intimidation except to advise Allen to leave the country , which he did . T HE NEXT THREAT confronted the United States even more directly . D ' Aubuisson accused labor leader Samuel Maldonado of links to the guerrillas even as Maldonado was in Miami , under the sponsorship of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ' s Institute for Free Labor Development , speaking to the Kissinger Commission . The U.S. Embassy finally responded . " Western diplomats " began confirming material gathered on the death squads by American journalists . Most attention focused on three people : Major Pozo , at the Treasury Police ; Lieutenant Colonel Aristides Alfonso Marquez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hector Antonio Regalado , d'Aubuisson 's hand-picked chief of security at the Constituent Assembly . When Salvadoran President Alvaro Magafia proved unable to remove the first two from their posts after discussions with Defense Minister Vides Casanova at the end of October , the leaks from the embassy and from Washington became more open . State Department sources told NBC News that the " confessed " killer of the Americanmilitary adviser was innocent . Moderate Salvadoran officials had planned the leak some time in advance as a way of making the point to Pozo 's colleagues that he had embarrassed the military with his actions . It worked ? after a fashion . A general order was issued by the high command late last month removing Pozo and Marquez from their intelligence posts . However , both men remain on active duty , and Pozo is now in a senior position at one of the elite U.S.-trained battalions . And Regalado , who is not even a member of the armed forces , is still in charge of the security at the Constituent Assembly . Meanwhile , the rest of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officer favored by , if not directly allied with , the d'Aubuisson group was appointed chief of staff of the armed forces . T HE REAGAN ADMINISTRATION is planning some further measures against the death squads . It reportedly intends to investigate the immigration status of the rich Salvadorans in Miami who back d'Aubuisson , although for people with money it is not difficult to find ways to legally evade the immigration statutes . The denial of a visa to d'Aubuisson himself , who has been granted one in the past , was a means of underscoring Washington 's displeasure . But given the intensity of the fight for power in El Salvador , such sanctions are at best cosmetic and unconvincing . All the more so when Reagan himself seems confused about the nature of the problem . It can be argued that the semiannual human rights certification required of the Administration by Congress , as it has been implemented , has ultimately served to endorse rather than condemn the death squads . No Administration was ever likely to deny certification , thereby cutting off aid and tying its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself certifying that whatever had happened was an " improvement . " The veto of the certification legislation was not necessarily a bad thing . But taken in conjunction with Reagan 's offhand remarks to the schoolchildren , the veto effectively gave the craziest elements of the Salvadoran right carte blanche . Reagan said that slayings attributed to right-wing factions in El Salvador might actually be carried out by leftist guerrillas " who know the right will be blamed . " This is exactly the rationalization that d'Aubuisson and his cronies used whenever death squad activities threaten to become a political embarrassment . Neither he nor Reagan nor anyone else has ever presented any evidence to substantiate such charges . There are no good policy options available to the United States . The few moderate Salvadorans left in the government continue to hope that Congress will condition U.S. support not on the vague promise to reduce death squad activity , but on the complete removal of all the officers believed directly linked to it . But given the Administration 's recent actions , that hardly seems likely . And if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violence ever did unravel , you have to ask yourself , who would be left to fight the war ?                     