@@430550

The School of Journalism in Columbia University on the Pulitzer Foundation finished its first year last June . It offered , at opening , all the four years of its curriculum . It admitted students to each year . The members of its fourthyear class were college graduates , with a bachelor degree . For them , as for many who will succeed them in the last year of the school , their study , while undergraduate in academic organization , was post-graduate in character , in the same sense as is professional study in a law or a medical school . The second and third years were entered on advanced standing from other institutions and from Columbia College . The first-year class was made up half of men who had past the usual college entrance examination and half admitted as non-matriculants on the strength of newspaper experience , maturity and ability . These last are eligible to a degree if for two years they maintain a grade of B , the grades being A , B , C and D. This was true of nearly half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convinced those closest to this experiment that our colleges could with profit to themselves and their students admit special students , as eligible to a degree , without the usual college fit , if our institutions vigorously required of them a high level of attainment and refused to permit the special student to remain unless he reached this standard . The student who is admitted as " special " because he has not been successful in his previous studies is tolerably sure to be unsuccessful in his undergraduate work . The special students , whose deficiencies are due to a season of active life , taken while their fellows were preparing for their examinations , are likely to furnish as valuable material as there is in a class . To them more has been given than to others entering in regular course and of them more must be required . Were this policy generally followed many a boy who has begun wage-earning would return to higher studies and give them a serious attention , never awakened in him by college preparation . The lock-step of our education with its precise tests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deadening drag . The academic experience of the first year of the school was less significant than its public and professional proof that the country and its press are both ready for the systematic education of journalists . The doubt , sometimes derision , with which Mr. Pulitzer 's proposal of a School of Journalism was received a dozen years ago , has disappeared . No new step in education has had a wider publicity . None has had a more general approval . Scores of audiences ? nearly sixty in all ? were glad to listen to the plans and the purpose of the school . It had in newspapers the friendliest notice and comment . Its graduates were at work within a month after they completed their course . So far as a few weeks ' experience can indicate , these graduates , who had had the fourth year in the school , a year devoted almost wholly to technical work with a college course back of it , were better and more thoroly trained than men who have spent a year or even two years in a city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginner at " practical " tasks , they had shared in a wider variety of newspaper work ? including dramatic and art criticism with editorial writing ? of which a beginner in a newspaper has nothing ? and they knew better how to edit copy . This general training prepares a man to begin and be ready for the widening  | range of newspaper and periodical work . The School of Journalism offers also the schooling of the writer . It is certain to furnish trained men for that broad array of occupations which require writing , editing and a knowledge of the sources of information and knowledge . The literary craftsman will come from the school as well as the journalist . The combination which the school offers of a thoro college course , serious , unsparing of toil , made up of carefully selected studies and combined with special training in the art of expression and the technique of the writer , is certain to produce men versed both in knowledge and in its use , writing to sell and able to reach the public . A third of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not one but felt that he was witnessing the creation of a new field of instruction in that art of arts , the practical use for definite ends of the written word . The reason and cause of this is that the writer under academic conditions is usually separated from life and in the last two years of the School of Journalism , and particularly in the fourth year , he is plunged in life . Every man who wrote much in his college course ? as many a man who reads these lines doubtless has ? will recollect his personal detachment . He was writing from the authors he knew , the gods of youth , ' too often the tin gods . He worked alone . The student writer has academic standards in mind and a sense of unreality broods over his subjects . The men in the fourth year of the School of Journalism and measurably those also in the second and third years are close to the subjects in life which have always trained and inspired the writer . They know the moving show of the street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts and signal trials . They enter the police station and the police court . Every city pageant unrolls itself before them . Of the tragedies of a great center they are witnesses . Its great spectacles are theirs and the greater figures of its daily life they see . Their criticism springs not from closet and classroom , but from the plays whose first performance they share and the exhibitions they visit . These things quicken , inspire , ripen and mature . The use of a great city as a laboratory has never been carried farther or employed more systematically . As a reporter , I had seen thru happy and fruitful , if hard and toilful , years , now twoscore summers away , the educating , stimulating effect of the reporter 's life ; but even I was not prepared for the instant result when all the varying tasks of the reporter were . used for training men , instructed as to the work , sent to significant tasks , kept at important events , criticized , corrected , developt and directed . All this gave form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's desultory round . If a man has the writer 's aptitude , and without it no man can become a journalist , teach as a school may , this close breasting of a great city 's " inconstant billows , " quickens all his powers . In academic conditions a man too often is taught to write and sees nothing of life . In the newspaper office he sees life and is not taught to write . The opening year of the School of Journalism has shown that these two factors in education can be combined . In the first year the single course which covered the round of inorganic and organic science was so handled and taught that men wrote with accuracy and human interest on subjects over which most newspaper men have had their unsolved puzzles . The entire writing in this first year centers about its studies , giving the work reality and that background of newly acquired knowledge and cognition out of which writing springs and thru whose expression it is developt . The training in writing in the second year made economics its center and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade , the Stock Exchange , great corporations , their reports and their working . The third year began reporting , lecture reports and will next year add the short story and the special article . The fourth year , as I have already pointed out , carried a man thru the range of newspaper work as it records all to which " a great city rings like one vast quire . " This writing proved of absorbing interest . Men wrote because they loved it . There was no need to force men to the task . The enthusiasm of the professional course spurred each . The whole round of task . The enthusiasm of the professional  | course spurred each . The whole round of education would be bettered if the relation of each subject to a man 's future life were made clear , manifest and authoritative so that men worked aware and awake that they were sowing for the years to reap . Of how much college education is this true , and where this is not true , can any study in any verity educate ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training of the newspaperman , fills less than a third of the four years ' work of the School of Journalism . All the professions have run the same round . The medical man began as the " medicine man , ' a close observer and a shrewd adviser , supplementing this by the arts of the charlatan and sorcerer . Only in our day and almost in our generation has medicine ceased to be empiric , become experimental , changed from the mere practise of the office and a traditional treatment and medication , to the assured knowledge of the laboratory and hospital . The pleader in the courts of ancient cities was schooled in the art of expression rather than in the science of law . The sophist and rhetorician who taught the great advocates of the Agora and the Forum were as far removed from teaching of law and the lawyer as mere courses in newspaper writing are from the full needs of newspaper training . These needs can only be met by study in the knowledge newspaper work demands . This training in knowledge rather than in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of law . It is the inspiring result of the first year of the School of Journalism , which Mr. Pulitzer 's large gift and large-minded , far-reaching plan made possible that it has left all who shared this great experiment , teacher and taught alike , convinced that the preparation for journalism has entered on the path which the training of law and of medicine has pursued . The school is still an experiment . May it never be anything else ! Changes will come . New studies and new methods will appear . To succeed , it must always keep near the actual work of the daily newspaper . But the first year has at least made clear that a great city can be successfully used as the laboratory of the journalist and that solid studies , not usually linked in our colleges to writing , can be fruitfully employed to train and to stimulate the writer .                     