@@207450

Every year 20,000 or more Americans over the age of 50 die of pneumococcal pneumonia . Yet medical men have known for more than a decade that there is a safe and effective one-shot vaccine to fight the disease . Why do n't doctors use the vaccine ? Why do n't they urge their older patients to get a preventive shot ? Philadelphia 's Dr. Robert Austrian asked the Association of American Physicians those questions last week , and the University of Pennsylvania professor promptly answered his own questions . Doctors , he said , have been so dazzled by penicillin that they rely on it even in cases where it is least effective . <P> Until the late 1930s , the only protection against pneumococcal pneumonia was serum prepared in animals . It was neither reliable nor safe . Then came the sulfas , and an intensified search for better medications for both prevention and treatment . Toward war 's end , the armed forces developed a vaccine from a fraction of the pneumococcus microbe itself . But six different types were needed . And by then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pneumococcus killer . Doctors ignored the vaccines . <P> This was all very well for younger patients : penicillin and their own powers of recovery would usually pull them through . But Dr. Austrian studied 529 pneumonia patients at Kings County Hospital in Brooklyn , and found that almost one-third of those over 50 died of their bloodstream infection . It seemed to have made no difference if they got penicillin . <P> The way to prevent 10,000 or more such needlessly early deaths each year , said Dr. Austrian , is for everyone over 50 to be immunized with six-way pneumococcus vaccine . One shot gives good immunity which lasts for years . But before the prescription can be filled , patients and their physicians will have to create a demand for the vaccine . No pharmaceutical house manufactures it today , because there is no market for it . Mass produced , it should cost no more than $1.50 a shot .                     