@@493750

Security for Americans Social Insurance Comes to the Fore ALMOST everybody , it would seem , is for social insurance . President Roosevelt has asked Congress to undertake this winter " the great task of furthering the security of the citizen and his family through social insurance . " The die-hard leaders of the Republican Party declare in favor of unemployment insurance and old-age pensions . A busy Cabinet committee and a staff of overworked government experts are toiling on a comprehensive program of social security . Politicians of every stripe felt obliged to include social insurance in their miscellany of preelection promises . The question holds the front and editorial pages of our newspapers . Scores of writers , tired of the depression , Technocracy and the gold standard , expound their dreams of social insurance . A few conservatives would use it to forestall communism , while some radicals hope it may destroy capitalism . Earnest students of the problem must feel per . plexed and aghast at this lavish devotion from unexpected quarters . Not so long ago any method of alleviating need was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A social-insurance plank in a candidate 's platform spelled political suicide . Only yesterday the American Federation of Labor was proscribing the movement as destructive of the " American standard of living . " Moreover , a careful observer can espy in the new social-insurance chorus many former worshipers at the shrine of Hoover , Mellon and Ford , who only a short while ago proclaimed that depressions are a thing of the past and that , despite the law of gravitation , stocks would always go up . No wonder students of social insurance are ap- prehensive . There n value in the new enthusiasm , but there is all too little evidence of any comprehension of the real issues . Current discussions rarely display even a cursory knowledge of the elementary principles underlying a system that has been in practical operation abroad for fifty years . The new converts are hugging a pet theory or a panacea under the name of social insurance . Just as instalment buying , employee stock ownership and endless production were the cure-alls in the blessed era of Coolidge and Hoover , so social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sesame to an economic heaven under the New Deal . Social insurance is lumped ' with housing , public works , shorter working hours , land reclamation and even decentralization of industry . Many converts see in it the means of turning depression into prosperity . A fog of ignorance hides the extremely simple aims and purposes of unemployment insurance . Stand-patters claim the depression as an exclusively " American problem which must be solved in an American manner " and piously declare that the " only remedy for unemployment is employment . " Some opponents , unaware of the difference between private and social insurance , blandly argue that unemployment is not an insurable risk . While the naive urge the government to assume the entire burden of insurance , there are the subtle claims that any governmental participation is relief . Some exponents of unemployment insurance , untaught by five years of depression , still insist that its chief aim is to prevent unemployment by stabilizing industry . The optimists seek to cure all ills through this legislation , while the pessimists bemoan the lack of resources from which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been enacted and the fiscal features are totally unknown , there is already a carload of panicky literature on the financial dangers of large insurance reserves . A group of learned professors have already worried themselves and their readers sick about the effects of the realization of the billions of dollars of accumulated funds on the next depression , which in all likelihood will never materialize , since no one knows when we will come out of the present one . There is just as much confusion about other phases of social insurance . There is little understanding of the relation of non-contributory pensions and contributory old-age insurance . The development of public opinion favorable to this provision has brought harvests of cash to fakers and crackpots . A year ago the biggest attraction in the movement was a chiropractor from Tulsa , Oklahoma , with a thirty-year criminal record for fraudulent mail schemes . Through a dime-membership chain he obtained hundreds of thousands of members by the promise of a pension of $30 a month at the age of forty . This year the foot specialist is losing out to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is multiplying the Tulsa man 's customers many times by holding out the bait of $200 a month , to be spent within the month , at sixty . With hundreds of thousands of voters throughout the land clamoring for this scheme , many congressmen are forced to declare themselves in its favor . Newspapers which , during the twenty-five-year struggle for a genuine old-age-security movement , ignored the subject now devote columns to the new promises . In health and disability insurance the confusion is just as great . The primary aim of health insurance is to provide immediate medical and financial aid for the sick and their dependents . The programs suggested in the United States range all the way from meaningless local-clinic gestures to utopian dreams of a public-health service for the future generation . In this introductory article I can but sketch the major principles of social insurance . It can not be overemphasized that social insurance is not a perfectionist program . It can not abolish all the evils of the present social order . It can neither fully stabilize capitalism nor bring about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system , for communist , fascist and capitalist countries have all found it useful in alleviating the common ills resulting from industrial civilization . The radical possibility of social insurance lies only in a more equitable distribution of wealth . Its chief benefit to capitalist society lies in cushioning depressions and in maintaining wage levels and the self-respect of workers . It is chiefly applicable to wage and salaried workers in industry and , to a lesser extent , to agricultural workers and professional groups . Sound programs of public works and housing serve other essential purposes and are complementary to , but not parts of , social insurance . Social insurance should no more be tied up with a program for decentralization of industry than with a program of land reclamation or a barter system . In social insurance the splendid instrumentality of insurance finds its fullest realization . By a widespread distribution of fire or death risks an insu --  ance company is able to guarantee full protection to its policyholders on the actuarial principle that neither all homes burn nor all men die at the same time . Through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receive immediate assistance while the rest of us willingly bear the small cost for the sake of our own security . Everybody has sung the praises of private insurance in the United States . Much less has been said about its total inadequacy to meet our needs . Not only are many of us unable to carry sufficient life insurance , but none of us is protected against unemployment , and only a few persons are able to buy insurance against old age and sickness . The reason is simple . Under private insurance each one of us must bear the entire cost of our protection plus the huge competitive overhead costs , and we simply can not afford such expenditures . Social insurance is designed to overcome the handicaps that make it impossible for private companies to protect the incomes of wage and salaried workers . It does this first by distributing the risk over the widest possible number of workers throughout a state , or preferably the nation . Second , by setting up a unified obligatory system , it eliminates the exorbitant costs of solicitation and the inexcusably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distributes the costs on an equitable basis among as many elements of society as possible so as to enable the wage earners to obtain adequate protection . Ideally , it endeavors to place a large share upon those in the community who can best afford to bear it , namely , the recipients of large incomes and inheritances . An intelligent plan of social insurance aiming at stability and adequacy seeks to divide the costs equitably among employers , employees and the government . Contributions on the part of employers are taken for granted , not because they are individually responsible for unemployment , sickness or old-age dependency , but because this protection is a legitimate charge upon production . Direct employee contributions can not be defended in theory , but it is practical wisdom to encourage them for the beneficial psychological effect , for the sake of better administration and , especially , for the more adequate benefits they make possible . The government must not only directly participate in the costs of insurance , but must , in addition , through the instrumentality of the insurance administration , aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhaust the necessarily limited benefits made possible under the insurance plan . Governmental participation is inevitable and must not be shirked . Its burden is even heavier without such insurance benefits , and in social insurance it is legitimate to integrate relief and insurance in the one plan . In short , the emphasis must be on the social features of social insurance . As Professor Paul H. Douglas has so well put it , social insurance regards the solidarity of society to be such " that greater relative protection may be properly given to those in the greatest relative need . " Governmental participation is especially justified when the funds are derived to a large degree from those who have most . The urgent need of a comprehensive system of social insurance in the United States can not be questioned . Its wide acceptance abroad , which the depression has stimulated rather than curtailed , is evidence of its practicability and workability . However , in developing a constructive program of social insurance for the immediate future in the United States it is as important to be guided by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social need . Since the underlying forces that caused us to remain decades behind other industrial nations in social legislation are still at work and are as formidable as ever , an attempt to introduce a complete and final program of social insurance at this time would be self-defeating . The difficulties in enforcing Section 7a of the N.I.R.A. are right before us . Moreover , our constitutional form of government has not been abandoned and a defeat in the courts would mean several decades ' delay for the whole program , as the history of the Child Labor Amendment has clearly shown . At this time it is essential to lay the foundations for a solid and sound program of social insurance . Let me briefly indicate the program that seems to me both feasible and sound . Since the American public is now , chiefly concerned with provisions for the unemployed and the aged , the program to be presented to the next Congress must of necessity be confined to these two phases , both of which involve immediate relief and a future program of insurance . No system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately . A system of non-contributory pensions , somewhat more adequate and improved than the systems now in operation in over a score of states , offers the only immediate way of meeting our distressing and accumulated problem of old-age dependency . An insurance plan established at the same time can provide for the future needs . In view of the financial difficulties of many states a federal system of subsidies to these states becomes immediately paramount . A bill for this purpose has already received the unanimous approval of the congressional committees in two consecutive Congresses . Had President Roosevelt said one word in its favor , it would have been enacted into law by the last Congress . It is obvious that today 's needs of the unemployed can not be met by an insurance system that can begin to pay benefits only a year or two after it is established . But the argument that if an unemployment-insurance system can not function immediately nothing shoidd be done about it is of a piece with the judgment of a physician who would not attend a seriously ill patient because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The army of unemployed is a shifting rather than a permanent one . The man who is employed today may be among the unemployed of tomorrow , and vice versa . While the immediate needs of the unemployed can be met only through an adequate and self-respecting system of relief , this can be taken over immediately and administered more economically and more adequately by the insurance administration through the institution of a work-test than could possibly be done under the present haphazard and degrading doles . While no one questions the desirability of preventing unemployment , a sound unemployment-insurance plan must aim chiefly to help the unemployed . The Wisconsin system of individual company reserves must therefore be completely ruled out of consideration , since it has nothing in common with either insurance in general or social insurance in particular , its primary purpose being to help the " good " employers . It distributes neither the risk nor the burden , and , as a stimulant to company unionism , it will definitely tend to undermine the growth of effective trade unions . Unless the unemployment-insurance system is based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth the paper it is written on . Should the plan be placed on a federal basis ? Federal legislation is , of course , by far the superior method . However , the congressional record on social legislation has not only been barren prior to the New Deal , but the constitutionality of even the New Deal legislation is still undecided . Should a federal social-insurance act prove unconstitutional , the movement will suffer a serious setback . Should we accept the device of the Wagner-Lewis Bill ? This plan for a federal excise tax upon all employers , to be remitted in the case of employers contributing to state insurance funds , is ingenious , but its chance for success is only about even . Aside from its doubtful constitutionality , I am not so hopeful as others about its stimulating effects upon individual states . American employers ' opposition to labor legislation is more ideological than economic , and long years of experience should teach us not to hope for social and economic wisdom from them and their organizations . The federal subsidy system , to my mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . The extension of federal aid to states is not only constitutional but in line with our established traditions . Serious as the drawbacks of separate state legislation are , it is a historic fact that workmen 's compensation laws , mothers ' pensions and old-age pensions have each in their turn spread over the major part of the United States within half a decade or less . This occurred without any aid from the federal government . With liberal grants-in-aid the most important states will rapidly fall in line . By conditioning the grant upon satisfactory standards , an adequate and uniform administration can be obtained . All dangers of constitutional nullification are eliminated under this plan and the New Deal has it within its powers to provide for an adequate subsidy at once . On the other hand , should the New Deal suffer a demise and the courts declare a direct federal law unconstitutional , the Old Dealers will not only block a constitutional amendment but also new federal legislation . No one at this writing knows the exact program to be sponsored by the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to come from members of the Committee are contradictory and indefinite . The responsibility of initiating a constructive social-insurance program lies squarely upon the shoulders of the President 's Committee . It must not only prepare a sound and feasible program , but must make it public considerably before the 1935 legislative sessions open on January 1 . Most state legislatures meet for only sixty days or short periods . Pressure will be brought to delay state legislation until Congress acts . If Congress does not act immediately , this legislation may be delayed for another two years since most state legislatures meet only every other year . The President 's promises thwarted congressional action on old-age pensions and unemployment insurance last spring . There must be no further delay in their fulfilment . 