@@494150

THE END OF THE SEVENTIES BY PETER SHAW THE WEATHER UNDERGROUND killings in Nanuet and Nyack , New York , riveted public attention in the way that events do when they seem to carry a lesson or a moral . Coming at the start of what appears to be a new cultural period likely to be marked by withdrawal from radicalism of all kinds , the reappearance of the Weather Underground illuminated the vast distance that has been crossed since the 1960s . A shift in public attitudes was evident in the revulsion evoked by the killings . Only a few years ago , the unanimity with which this emotion was voiced would have been hardly conceivable . " Times have changed , " wrote William Safire in the New York Times soon afterward . " The lawmen are once again the good guys , and we give as much encouragement to enforcing the law as to upholding the law . It took until the early 1980s to bring the 1960s to an end . " Safire was right , but the culmination he announced did not come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many intellectuals still cling to the culture of the 1970s , which derived its attitudes of suspicion toward law and authority from the 1960s . In the new climate of opinion about radicals and violence , few people seemed to be criticizing law enforcement . When the aging lion of apologetics for extremism , the Weathermen 's lawyer , William Kunstler , emerged to warn against " overreaction " to the killings , television interviewers demonstrated a new skepticism . Once they had treated Kunstler as the privileged bearer of avant-garde political ideas ; now they subjected him to discomforting questions . On what grounds did he charge overreaction by the police ? Could these killings be justified ? " They are unjustifiable , " Kunstler weakly replied . In the old days he would have risen to the challenge by pointing a finger of guilt at the society that had driven idealistic young people to the desperate pass of violence . Similarly , Tom Wicker wrote in the Times , " Those arrested deserve a legal defense in court and all the constitutional protections afforded to any other accused person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wicker in effect went on to warn against the dangers now posed by the authorities , as did Sheldon Wolin in the Times ( writing about the " nihilistic violence of the bureaucratic order " ) , a Nation editorial , and an article by Paul Berman in the Village Voice . " It is ghastly , " Berman wrote , " to imagine what Jeremiah Denton 's subcommittee on terrorism must be dreaming of . " The accused killers ' lawyers went further , charging that the state had already abused its powers in reaction to the Nyack killings . They claimed that two of the men arrested in the case had been beaten by the police , and that the woman accused of providing them with cars , Eve Rosahn , had been brought into court and illegally arraigned in the absence of counsel . Kunstler , referring to the state 's decision to delay another arraignment ( that of his client , Cynthia Boston ) for security reasons , called the court 's excuse " a fraud . " " This is Reagan 's big push , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the Nyack case . " After Cynthia Boston was released , a representative of the New York Civil Liberties Union charged the authorities with " hysteria " in her arrest , which had been made after an eyewitness identification . ( Boston herself " expressed her sympathy " for the Nyack killers , while calling President Reagan and his Cabinet " ruthless fascists . " ) The issue of the Nyack case , as both the columnists ' and the lawyers ' comments reveal , was law enforcement . By 1981 the Weatherpeople were singling out the police for their acts of terrorism . They had shot two policemen and a security guard in the Nyack robbery , which itself was evidently undertaken to secure money to finance bombings of police stations and courts . In the absence of manifestos , the Weather Underground 's lethal hostility to the police amounted to the clearest indication of its politics . It recalled the elementary definition of the state as that institution of society which reserves to itself the power over life and death . This power is of course chiefly exercised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the law enforcement question proved to be inseparable from the issue of race . Not only did the charges of judicial oppression for the most part concern blacks , but the radicals had repeatedly made it clear that their perception of American society as evil stemmed above all from its treatment of blacks . As Cathlyn Wilkerson , the Weather Underground member who was arrested with Kathy Boudin in the early 1960s at a protest against segregated schools in Chester , Pennsylvania , had said : " We are who we are because Malcom X was around teaching , or Rap Brown . " Yet Wilkerson and her associates consistently exploited blacks in the service of their own prejudices against society . In the 1960s , for example , as Thomas Powers 's biography , Diana : The Making of a Terrorist , points out , William Ayres and Diana Oughton , both Weather Underground members , taught black children in a community school in Michigan . The couple decided that learning the alphabet was of secondary importance , and gave lessons on Che Guevara instead . As a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Years later , when Ayers was living in hiding with Bernadine Dohrn , his shift to new forms of racial activism rendered him no less exploitive . Working for a black minister 's day-care group , he brought its children to two demonstrations against the closing of Harlem 's Sydenham Hospital , once again employing black children to further his own views . By the end , in the Nyack incident , the Weather Underground had so arranged matters that a black policeman , among others , was killed by a black criminal . T HE PROTEST CAREERS of the radicals had led them to a kind of romantic racism which underscored the centrality of the race issue . Most recently a communique reportedly from the Black Liberation Army explained that the Nyack holdup " was part of a campaign to counter the planned oppression of blacks by U.S. law enforcement authorities . " What , then , does the record show about the law 's treatment of blacks who were associated with the Weatherpeople ? All five of the black men connected to the Nyack killings had criminal records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the police . Sam Brown , who killed the two policemen in Nyack , had an arrest record going back to 1958 . He served one year of a five-year sentence in 1963 and 1964 , and was arrested four times in 1970 ; his most recent arrest , in May 1980 , was for auto theft . When he was brought in at that time , it was discovered that he had failed to appear for sentencing for his previous crime . On the day after the Nyack killings , Nathaniel Burns and Samuel Smith were chased through New York City 's borough of Queens by police who recognized the license plate on their car . In 1970 Smith , who was shot and killed by a policeman at the end of the chase , had been charged with attempted murder in the shooting of two officers attempting to question him about a holdup . Whether his conviction in 1970 was for this shooting or for the robbery that preceded it was not clear . In any case , Smith eventually amassed eight robbery arrests and had been arrested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burns , arrested at the end of the Queens chase , had been charged in 1970 with attempting to set up a sniper post opposite a Bronx police station , and with engaging in a shoot-out with two passing patrolmen shortly after a bombexploded in the same station . Only Donald Weems , who like Burns was then a Black Panther , was found guilty at that time . He escaped from prison in 1978 and is now wanted in connection with the Nyack case . The truth about society 's treatment of these men , both before and after their political conversions , is that they have been treated with anything but severity . Had they been convicted either for their crimes or for their initial violence against the police , or had they remained in prison without parole and without managing to escape , the Nyack killings could not have occurred . In the 1960s there was a widespread tendency to view crimes of violence committed by blacks as the natural , even justified , consequence of racial oppression . It is noteworthy that in the case of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the contrary , if there was a scandal concerning law enforcement , it had to do with judicial and penal weakness and inefficiency ? not social repression . Among the whites involved in the case , the picture was much the same . David Gilbert , arrested in Nyack , was wanted for arson and assaulting a policeman in Denver . The federal warrant for his arrest , however , had run out . Judith Clark , the last of the four arrested in the Nyack incident , had been indicted along with Kathy Boudin for participating in an assault on policemen during the Chicago Days of Rage in 1969 . Both of them jumped bail , but later Clark was captured , tried , found guilty , and sentenced ? only to have her conviction overturned on a technicality . Marilyn Buck , the only white member of the Black Liberation Army , was also wanted in connection with the Nyack killings . In 1971 she had participated in an assault on a police station in San Francisco in which a policeman was killed . In 1973 she received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in jail on the day of the Nyack killings ? for buying guns to be used by the BLA . She had disappeared in 1977 , however , while on furlough from prison . V IRTUALLY ALL of those named in connection with the killings had had similar experiences with the law . Another fugitive in the case , Anthony Laborde , a member of the Black Liberation Army , was wanted for killing a policeman in Queens last year . Joanne Chesimard had escaped from prison , where she was serving a life sentence fox killing a state trooper . Cynthia Boston , the woman arrested in Mississippi in connection with the case and later released , was said by the FBI to have an " extensive arrest record , " according to the Washington Post , although Kunstler , her attorney , told the court at her arraignment that she had no criminal past . The man with whom she lived , William Johnson , was another prison escapee and was also wanted in connection with the Nyack case . To the accompaniment of their lawyers ' outraged charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nyack case continued to benefit from the legal system . Despite a district attorney 's plea that Eve Rosahn be held on suspicion of involvement in the Nyack murders , she was temporarily released on $10,000 bail , even though she was already out on bail for throwing acid at a policeman . ( The acid-throwing was in connection with the visit to the U.S. of the Springboks , the South African rugby team . ) Jeffrey Jones and Eleanor Raskin , traced and arrested after Nyack , were both wanted at the time for possession of explosives ; Raskin was released on bail a few days later . Cynthia Boston 's fellow member of the Republic of New Afrika movement , Chokwe Lumumha , was given permission by a judge to visit Boston in prison after her arrest , in spite of a district attorney 's warning that a similar visit by a fellow Black Liberation Army member had led to the escape of Joanne Chesimard . ( Subsequently another judge stayed Lumumba 's visit . ) I N SIMILAR FASHION , those involved in the case had hardly been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sinister , centralized federal bureaucracy . Before Joanne Chesimard escaped she had amassed in her prison cell nearly 2,000 pages of 1131 documents which she had obtained under the Freedom of Information Act . But it was Kathy Boudin 's experiences that most notably revealed the government 's computers as something less than instruments of mass control . She was able to register for and receive welfare payments ? while living in a cooperative apartment ? with easily obtained false documents . When she was identified after her arrest in Nyack , it was not the dreaded central computer of the Hsi that was responsible , for it failed to provide any information about her . Instead , a local policeman recognized her from a " Wanted " poster and used a manual comparison of fingerprints to make the identification . The spectacular series of arrests in the wake of the bungled Nyack robbery demonstrated not so much the long reach of the law as the radicals ' understandable and hitherto justified complacency about the capabilities of the police . In some cases , apparently , a liberal judicial and penal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meant to guarantee and enhance . The record of the police and the criminal justice system regarding the Weather Underground thus appears to refute the charges leveled by the radicals and their lawyers . But there was a disturbing circumstance that was not mentioned by those who had expressed concern about the excesses of law enforcement . This was the report that Samuel Smith was killed in Queens , not in the act of firing at his police pursuer , as the official account had it , but while climbing over a fence , as some witnesses reportedly said . The public , it would seem , winked at the shooting of Smith out of a feeling that somehow the social contract could now be restored only by violation of thelaw . But more significant was the fact that liberal columnists also should have silently passed over this incident , which was apparently germane to their stated fears about the excesses of law enforcement . Whether intentional or not , their avoidance of this issue powerfully demonstrates the depth of the change in the cultural climate . A LTHOUGH some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like other 1960s radicals they were essentially products of the establishment they despised . For the most part they came from privileged backgrounds as well as from politically leftist families . Psychologist Kenneth Keniston , sociologist Richard Flacks , and political scientist Stanley Rothman agree that contemporary radicalism is characterized not by a generation gap but by a continuity between generations . In one interview , Kathy Boudin 's father , Leonard Boudin , says that his defense of radicals in the 1950s led to a regrettable parental neglect . Among his clients was the atomic spy , Judith Coplon . In 1981 , after Kathy Boudin 's arrest , photographs showed her parents rushing to solace her . In becoming the contemporary equivalent of Coplon , it seemed , Kathy had recaptured the parental concern denied her during the earlier period . Just as Kathy Boudin 's activism was partly an outgrowth of her father 's politics , she and her Weather Underground comrades seemed to rage against social injustice at least partly out of guilt at the privilege they had inherited . Kathy Boudin 's father was famous and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the chairman of the executive committee of Commonwealth Edison Electric Company ; Eve Rosahn 's parents had become wealthy in business ; Silas Bissell was an heir of the Bissell carpet fortune ; Eleanor Raskin 's father was a prominent New Deal economist ( when she was released on $100,000 bail a few days after her arrest in the wake of the Nyack episode , she became eligible for a substantial inheritance from her mother ) ; the father of Diana Oughton , one of the Weatherpeople killed in the townhouse explosion , was a millionaire . These well-born radicals shared an overwhelming resentment against their society , the untrammeled expression of which was made possible by their birth into positions of social privilege . For a time the Weatherpeople 's rage and their privilege were compatible with the lives they live underground . But almost as if in recognition that the countercultural spirit of the 1960s was dying out at the end of the 1970s , they again were moved to violence . There were still those who clung to the counterculture 's legacy to the 1970s : anti-authoritarianism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforcement . Until the Nyack killings revealed that murder is more horrific than the prospect of vigorous police action , the 1970s could not be said to have ended . 