@@493350

Some Recent Films IT was asserted by the present critic , when The Gold Rush appeared last August , that the comedy of the moving pictures had come to be dominated by the school of Harold Lloyd and Buster Keaton , the exploitation of comic tricks or gags . And I prophesied that Chaplin , with his finer comedy and his less spectacular farce , would not be able to hold his popularity against it . What has happened is precisely the reverse of what I predicted . The Gold Rush has had a great success ; and , so far from playing Chaplin off the screen , Buster Keaton and Harold Lloyd - have taken to imitating him . What is striking in their new films is the reduction of the number of gags and the attempt to fill their place with straight drama . Lloyd and Keaton have tried to follow Chaplin 's example by allowing their comic characters to become genuine human beings ; they have gone in for wistfulness and pathos . In Lloyd 's case , the effect of this attempt is not particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; he has been a dummy for comic devices . And we are not much moved by the scene in The Freshman in which he learns at last that he has been the butt of his fellow students , instead of , as he has believed , their hero ; nor when he enters the big game at the last moment and wins it with a miraculous touchdown . But Buster Keaton is an able pantomimist ; his morose and sensitive face commands a certain sympathy . We arc , therefore , not absolutely unresponsive to his new comedy , Go West . Here he appears as a friendless boy on a western ranch who conceives an attachment for a cow : he has taken a stone out of the cow 's foot and the cow has , in turn , defended him against the onrush of an angry bull , after the manner of Androcles and the Lion . When she is finally sent off to the slaughter-house , he opens the cars and sets loose the whole herd . We see a danger , however , that , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tears instead of laughs , they may , not excluding Chaplin , merely succeed in becoming maudlin . Buster Keaton 's dumb solemnity was perhaps more touching in his frankly comic films than in this attempt at a sentimental one . Stella Dallas and The Tower of Lies are two long and pretentious films of very similar character and quality . They are both rather serious attempts at the realistic presentation of the tragedies of simple lives ; and neither is a real success . It is apparently more difficult for the moving pictures to be convincing with themes of this kind than with almost anything else . And the only way , aside from melodrama , in which we can be held by a story of country life like The Tower of Lies , is by being made to believe absolutely in the reality of its people . An admixture of movie theatricality is here particularly conspicuous and particularly distasteful . None the less , it is perhaps unfair to blame all the defects of The Tower of Lies either on Victor Seastrom , who has obviously brought great intelligence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose prodigious virtuosity can not quite save him in a role in which he seems miscast . The writer has never read the novel of Selma Lagerhif ? The Emperor of Portugallia ? upon which The Tower of Lies is based , but he remembers encountering else ? where in her writings the same mixture of poetic realism with sentimental melodrama that one finds here ; and he confesses to having suffered a similar malaise . Stella Dallas has , however , not even the advantage of a Selma Lagerltif to built upon . Though it includes some respectable elements , it is essentially a trashy moving picture based on a trashy story . I found it difficult to believe in the reality of the characters , with the exception perhaps of the young girl , played by Lois Moran , and the situations seem to me impossible . Stella Dallas , for all its touches of honest observation , is essentially an elaborate piece of hokum . An organization called the International Film Arts Guild has been founded for the purpose of reviving meritorious old films . They plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , afternoon and evening , in the George M. Cohan Theatre and , if the enterprise proves successful , to take a permanent theatre and show a repertoire through ? out the week . Their first picture was Deception , a German film directed by Ernst Lubitsch . This curious and rather interesting production , made soon after the War , deals with the wives of Henry the Eighth and appears to have been inspired by a strong anti-English animus . Henry the Eighth , well done by Emil tannings , is presented as a burly beef-eating Englishman , boorish , domineering , wilful , - unscrupulous , treacherous and cruel . It is a savage treatment of an historical subject of a kind unconventional for the movies and perhaps such as could only have been arrived at by the imagination of one country applied to the history of another . At one point , the atrocious Henry is seen to tear up a scrap of paper .                     