@@429150

BEFORE HE RETIRED in 1994 , John Danforth was for 18 years U. S. senator from Missouri . A Republican , he served on three key committees : the Committee on Finance , the Committee on Commerce , Science and Transportation , and the Select Committee on Intelligence . In addition to being trained as a lawyer , Danforth received a degree from Yale Divinity School and is a priest in the Episcopal Church . We recently spoke with him in St. Louis where he is a partner with the Bryan Cave law firm . Were Bob Dole to ask you what two or three issues should be given top priority during this campaign season , what would you tell him ? I 'd say that for the good of the country candidates must address the issue of entitlements . Unfortunately , the candidate who has the courage to speak honestly about these programs would probably lose the election . Maybe I 'm being unduly pessimistic . In any case , Social Security , Medicare , Medicaid and , taken together , government programs for veterans and civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to expand even when spending in most other areas has been reined in . They absolutely have to be addressed for their own sake as well as for the sake of the future of the country . The growth of these programs is a time bomb , and it 's going to explode in the middle of the second decade of the 21st century . This is a mathematical certainty , not a matter of opinion . By the year 2012 , federal taxes will be consumed by entitlement spending plus payment for interest on the debt that continues to grow precisely due to our spending on entitlements . Because we are afraid of making even modest changes that affect people who are , say , in their 60s , our legacy to people in their 20s and 30s presents a major disaster for the country . That 's an issue that must be addressed and we 're not doing it . We 've become paralyzed . You mention the deficit . Would you single out a balanced budget as a key election-year issue ? I do n't think you have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If we start now we can chart a gradualist financial course to avoid disaster , rather than having to wrench the wheel one way or another after it becomes too late to have steady change . A number of measures would help steer us in the right direction . Means testing for Social Security benefits is clearly one . I also agree with Pat Moynihan that the indexing formula-the measure by which we determine when and by how much benefits should be increased-should be changed . And the retirement age for vesting in these systems can be increased gradually . These are only a few examples of a number of incremental things that can be done , and they would have a positive effect on the deficit provided we initiate such measures now . These are the aspects of the deficit that I think should be discussed openly during the presidential campaign . So entitlements would be first on your list of election-year issues . What 's second ? The problem of black males in urban areas who get buried-literally and figuratively-between the ages of five and 18 . Obviously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identified geographically and demographically . As a nation . we need to face honestly the enormous and complex problem of the breakdown of social structure in our cities reflected in violence , gangs , drugs and the collapse of the family . Would you agree that few Republicans are talking right now about the plight of young black males ? Well , many Republicans tend to approach the issue via the judiciary , in the form of crime bills that provide for mandatory sentences and so forth . Unfortunately , the politics on this matter have become hardline , and not only on the part of the Republicans . Both parties have become caught up in crime bills that are oriented toward the death penalty , and caught up in attacks on affirmative action . But the quality of life in our cities , certainly for young black males but really for everyone , is an issue that we should be able to address . At least we should do a better job of focusing on it . Clearly , the problem deserves attention and action , unless we are content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to admit , were I to spell out a program that would address these matters , politically speaking I would be on the road to nowhere , especially in an election year . Perhaps the most any candidate can do over the next few months is to take the risk of speaking very explicitly about actual conditions and raising possible long-term solutions . I 'm persuaded that many of the cities ' problems are not going to be solved from Washington . When I served in the Senate I said that sharply in relationship to crime legislation . Some people have " lock them up and throw away the key " approaches to crime bills , while others simply oppose those approaches . Personally , I doubt that crime legislation is going to address the social problems in which young black males are mired . Crime legislation will not fix their lives or our cities . The problems are deeper . They involve the breakdown of families and the lack of community structure-including the fact that churches are not the force that they once were . You 've alluded to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of issues you 've raised . Many citizens now seem to be saying that they wish politics were less partisan precisely so that such problems would receive constructive attention for a common good . Of course , politics will always be adversarial to some degree , but have we reached the point where partisanship seems to be an end in itself ? I think we face very , very big questions about the future of the country , and that there are at least two points of view that reflect truly different directions on almost every big question . The point of an election is to allow the public to try to participate directly in deciding about the big questions and the future course of the country . So I think a good campaign is much like a referendum where clear differences are presented . Some things are worth debating and should be presented sharply . Political campaigns should not be allowed to reduce issues to mush . Alternative courses should be presented , and they should be presented clearly . In that sense , at least , I believe partisanship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of partisanship , if it 's all just fluff , then why go to the polls ? But the public is right in decrying political gridlock , although I do n't think gridlock is necessarily caused by strongly held views on major issues . What often happens nowadays is that politicians become paralyzed because they are always fearful of what 's going to be done to them in the next sound bite , or the next 30-second commercial , Many times on the Senate floor I 've seen senators paralyzed by fear of how a vote might be turned against them by an opponent in the next election . The budget , for example , is very complicated , politically and otherwise , particularly when it comes to the entitlements we were just talking about . To explain to constituents why one 's decisions are publicly responsible takes time and patience . It 's hard to do . What 's easy is to step in front of a camera and say , whether true or not , " My opponent voted against Social Security ten times " it only takes a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complex approach , and consequently risk taking a shot in a 30-second commercial , it 's easier for legislators to do nothing . Consider what happened to President Bush in 1992 . The Treasury Department presented him with a concept relating to tax policy that did not propose to increase taxes but rather advocated changing the way taxes were , collected . Under current law , the tax system encourages consumption and discourages savings and investment . Treasury proposed that the system be transformed in the direction of taxing consumption in order to encourage savings and investment . At least that was the concept , which I think was sound . President Bush rejected it . Why ? Because any change in the tax code involves increasing some taxes and reducing others , even if there is no net chance at all , and because Bush said " Read my lips , no new taxes . " Even if new tax increases were perfectly balanced by tax decreases , even had there been a net reduction in taxes , Bush 's opponents could still say he supported tax increases . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my lips , no new taxes , " the result was the ossification of the tax code . No new taxes meant no change . Since Bush wanted to avoid being attacked in negative spot commercials he chose not to support a potentially beneficial change in tax policy . As a country we became captive to a phrase-to a punch line in a speech . You strongly opposed negative campaigning before the practice was honed to a hightech art . Are such corruptions of civic discourse , in your opinion , a significant feature of our current political culture ? Yes . I have been interested in this particular problem for a long time . The way we campaign has a lot to do with what 's gone wrong with politics and , basically , what 's gone wrong with public discourse . It 's always struck me that the key political reform is not campaign finance reform , which is what most people mean by political reform . Instead , I think reforming the format of the political campaign is key . Politics today is almost all 20-second sound bites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can say in very short periods of time . And it 's been proven that the most effective way you can use such short bits of time is to say something negative that evokes an emotional response . Politics has wed itself to the tactics and spirit of the sound bite . I think it 's important to develop formats in which candidates can , and must , speak to voters for longer blocks of time , and where a knowledgeable questioner will keep candidates focused on particular subjects for longer periods of time . I 'm not saying that the 20-second sound bite or the 30-second commercial would end . It would n't , because of the First Amendment . But the question is whether or not such short hits could be supplemented . The kind of supplement I 'm talking about would likely transform the nature of campaigning . How would such a reform be implemented ? I think it would be possible to create new formats which candidates would find very hard not to participate in . Let 's say that a bar association , a league of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other than one in which several questioners ask a host of questions , almost at random , to which candidates respond with one or two minutes of comment . Instead , the candidates would appear alone , without their opponent present , and would answer questions from a single moderator . The moderator would not ask trick questions , just very fundamental and insistent questions such as , " What do you intend to do about the budget ? " Any politician can dance around any question for a minute , but it would be impossible for them to dance around for an hour while someone like Ted Koppel pressed for an answer . Such a forum would be a very informative exercise , and I think it would be possible to shame candidates , if necessary , into participating . At any given time there may be from three to a half-dozen truly significant questions that face the country . These questions do not include some personal charge against somebody or the social issue du four . They relate to the basic direction of the country . What do we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities ? What do we intend to do about the budget deficit ? What do we intend to do about America 's role in the post-cold-war world ? Let 's say that one of the networks decided that it would sponsor a series of programs on the issues I just mentioned , giving each candidate one hour to address the given issue . Instead of a panel of four questioners , there would be one or two . In that case , Bill Clinton and Bob Dole would not be able to rely on canned one-liners ; they would have to converse about the issue . I believe such a format is feasible and would go a long way toward transforming the nature of political campaigning . You 're suggesting a model for enhancing political discourse . I am . But I do n't imagine that candidates would suddenly begin to coddle their opponents . Politics is always going to be combat . But in the midst of that combat there would be something of substance . And that something of substance would in turn transform the rest of the debate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other 's positions on issues . At least then the political process would be defining significant differences on matters that are really worth talking about . Though the Clarence Thomas nomination to the Supreme Court was not , strictly speaking , a political campaign , it did seem to reflect a great deal about American political culture . You have been perhaps the most high-profile and vocal supporter of Thomas . Without rehashing the details of the case , what broader political and moral lessons were learned in that nomination battle ? First , holding political views is not a justification for destroying a person . Not everything goes in politics . In this country procedures are important to protect the accused and we apply those procedures in court , but not to congressional committees . I think we 've learned that due process is important in contexts such as confirmation hearings . People should be represented by an attorney when their whole being is under attack , and the attorney should be able to interview witnesses in advance and take statements and conduct cross-examinations . Proper procedure is important . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ television five days after they 've emerged to make a charge against a nominee and air the charles in public , especially when the nominee is n't represented by a lawyer and has n't had any time to prepare a response . In a confirmation hearing you can turn a perfectly decent human being into a national figure of scorn . You can take away virtually everything that 's made life worth living-pride , dignity , a sense of achievement . That should be hard to do , not easy . A lot of people may not agree with Clarence Thomas , but I do n't care if you agree with him or not , he is a human being . And he happens to be a very kind human being , which is why so many people , male and female , black and white , who knew him were so shocked and hurt by what happened , and why they gathered in my office to support him . What happened to Clarence Thomas in the confirmation hearing was just plain wrong . Another lesson we 've learned , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and so personally , attackedwhether it 's Robert Bork , John Tower , Zoe Baird , liberal or conservative-through a political process that resembles a kangaroo court , we need to say it 's wrong . We have to stop doing that to people . Photograph CAMPAIGN REFORM : Creating new formats // The Republican Party is now very closely linked with the Religious Right . As a former member of the Senate and as an Episcopal priest , how do you view the current state of religious activism in the political realm ? Religious people are not going to check their beliefs at the coatroom . What you bring to politics and your participation in politics is your whole self , and religious people are going to bring their whole selves to whatever they do in politics . Ever since Joseph was in Egypt and Israel 's prophets were addressing the political issues of their day , both Jews and Christians have felt compelled to bring their religious views into the political arena . Of course , various traditions within Christianity , such as the Mennonites , opted out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with diametrically different points of view-some are liberals , some **25;960;TOOLONG in politics because they think that they must do so in order to be faithful to God 's claim on them . Now , having said that , I want to add two extra points . First , the great challenge of America is , and has been , to keep a very diverse people united as one people-to try to create wholeness , shalom . To endeavor to create wholeness is a religious calling , and it 's a very American thing to do . James Madison 's whole approach to politics and governing was to try to hold together diverse groups . From that perspective the nature of government in America should be inclusive . But what does such inclusion entail ? People are politically active as whole persons , which includes whatever religious beliefs they might hold , and they state their strongly held views openly . But we also are favored with a system that incorporates differing opinions , includes checks and balances , and is intentionally sluggish , all in order to ensure that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of view are dominated by one powerful segment of the public . In the end we have a theological reason for insisting on the protection of diversity within unity-we need n't look only to Madison . One of the messages of our religious tradition is that God 's ways are not our ways , and our thoughts are not God 's thoughts . We may be , and probably are , wrong in a lot of what we think and do . Thereforeand this is my second point-religious people have the responsibility not only to participate in the political process but to wear their tolerance on their sleeves . Religious people especially have the responsibility to recognize that theirs is one of many points of view , all of which are encompassed within America . <p>                     