@@493150

CORRESPONDENCE Marxian Economics Unsound SIR : The fate of the Socialist party , as debated in your issue of December 2nd , raises a big question , but not a new one . The present situation has long been latent , although only now revealed . Kindly grant space upon it to one who for thirty years has voted with the Socialist party , although never during that time being able to enter it . The significant fact is that for many years some nine-tenths of the Socialist vote has come from those in the same predicament as the writer ? unable to swallow the narrow creed which is placed as a bar to membership in and reform of the Socialist party . This fact is eloquent of the wide dissonance between the party 's policy and that rising tide of popular protest against commercialism in America of which it is supposedly the political expression . For this protest it has hitherto constituted the only outlet . To date this protest has been the party 's main support . The Socialist vote in America has never been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against commercialism . As much as a year ago Mr. Hillquit himself devoted an entire evening before the Intercollegiate Socialist Society to an indictment of the Socialist party and its methods , closely along the lines followed by Mr. Simons . Both he and Mr. Simons recognize the party 's un-Americanism . But neither of them condemn at all the errors of principle which lie deeper than mere methods , personalities or phrases , but which explain the presence of all these . Mr. Hillquit closed his criticism with an impassioned appeal for a return to first principles , and Mr. Simons virtually does the same . Yet neither recognizes that the details which they condemn are but the natural fruit of economic principles which are erroneous , un-American and futile . Yet this indictment is urged by one , the writer , who all his life has believed , and still believes , in the early abolition of all commercialism . Mr. Simons says that the party 's failure is due to its shallow expediency and greed for votes . But how can this explain defeat ? The two old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have gained while the Socialist party has lost . The fact is that it is Marxianism itself which is basically unacceptable to American voters . Here and today , Marxianism is broadly inconsistent with the facts . Whether Marxian socialism ever truly represented European economics I can not say , but certain it is that since " Das Kapital " was written the whole commercial world in America has become revolutionized away from the philosophies which Marx and his followers have set forth . You editorially back the urgings of Mr. Simons that the Socialist party be made more American . But how can this be accomplished without the abandonment of all the archaic economic philosophies so widely at variance with American history and present fact ? Broadly and briefly , the orthodox Socialist beliefs are these : ( ) Everything turns upon wages . Higher wages mean welfare for the workingman , and lower ones his loss . ( 2 ) Economic class-lines must be drawn between the wage-earner and those whose income takes some other form . All who do not earn wages are a burden upon those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the workingman is exploited . The difference between wages and market-price goes to the employer . That is , the poor are poor by the amount that the rich are rich . The struggle is between wage-earner and employer . ( 4 ) Ergo , the class-struggle , however undesirable , constitutes a step toward socialism . The workman can rise only by class-struggle . The poor need only exert sufficient pressure upon the rich , and the rich will disgorge , making the poor rich . ( 5 ) This pressure is to be exerted by the wage-earners as a class , through the ownership and control by them of all the tools of industry . ( 6 ) American progress has consisted in a gradual centralization of ownership and employment . ( 7 ) Political action is competent to reverse all these symptoms and effect socialism . But the facts in America , whatever they may be in Europe , are directly inconsistent with every one of these theories , as follows : ( I ) Wages ( in money ) are no factor in welfare . Real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the history of the last century has always shown wages-in-things lowest when wages-in-money were highest . When socialism has been accomplished wages will be lower than now , instead of higher ; but they will buy several times as much . ( 2 ) Wages do not determine class-lines between exploiter and exploited . Many , many wage-earners are themselves a part of the economic burden on the poor . Many employers are producers . ( 3 ) It is not in his wages or at the factory that the workingman is exploited . If every employer turned socialist tonight , turning tomorrow 's gross income into wages , the condition of the poor would be only slightly and temporarily ameliorated . The workingman is exploited at the shop-counter , not at the factory . ( 4 ) Every step in the class-struggle makes the poor poorer . Every rise in wages , whether won by strike or otherwise , is paid by other workingmen , not by the employer . For eighty years wages have been rising steadily . If wages came from the employed that class must have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( 5 ) No amount of control by wage-earners can affect this in the slightest . Only the consumer has power over the rich , for all commercial incomes come from the consumer , and from him alone . ( 6 ) Ownership has been gradually decentralized during the last sixty years . Huge consolidations and accumulations have plainly been going on , it is true ; but this will produce centralization only if the total amount of business remains constant . As a matter of fact , the continual crop of new properties has always outrated consolidation . The trouble with the land to-day is not too much centralization , but the costly anarchy of too little centralization , leading to exaggerated costs in commercial competition . ( 7 ) Political action is futile ? except as an expression of public opinion . There exists to-day nowhere on the face of the globe , in the constitution of any government , the power to remedy commercialism . For that lies only in the dollars of the consumer , as they cross the shop-counter ; and these are as unorganized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as were the political rights of the people two centuries ago . It is because this totally new power of government must be dredged up from the abysses of the unknown in history that an economic revolution commensuratewith that which secured political democracy is inevitable before socialism can be secured . And when it comes it will have as little connection with any direct , conscious effort of the people to gain the particular right obtained as was always the case in these earlier revolutions for political democracy . The simple , childlike philosophy of the orthodox Socialists , in seeing the rich merely as having something belonging to them and in starting to secure it by direct attack , is an exact parallel with the political faith of Germany , in her reliance upon force as the solution to every problem and upon ascendancy as the sole basis for happiness . How totally , absurdly un-American is all this tragic folly only Americans can appreciate . Only when the Socialist party has reformed its economic ideas into conformity with American facts , only when it has ceased to exclude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus might bring progress and reform , can its methods and personalities come into accord with American historic ideals , bringing success with American promptness . Only then can they come into accord with American facts , bringing certainty and stability , and into accord with America 's unchanging spirit of democracy ? the reliance always upon action by the whole people , excluding every suggestion of class , bringing purity and permanence of liberty . SIDNEY A. REEVE . New York City . For Socialist Liberalism SIR : THE NEW REPUBLIC for December 2nd was an be extraordinary issue and especially good were the editorial and the article by Mr. Simons on " The Future of the Socialist Party . " Is not really the Socialist party very often influenced by foreign and un-American ideas ? I am absolutely in agreement with the editor that the Socialist party needs a thorough house cleaning . First , the Socialists of the United States must abandon the old dogmatic delusions that the conditions of the Capitalist system are the same all over the world , that the working masses are just as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forgetting or deliberately ignoring the fundamental characteristics of each nation , political , intellectual , historic , religious , etc . It is absurd that a Socialist party of a monarchic Russia or of a militaristic Germany should pursue the same methods of propaganda as a Socialist party of a democratic country like the United States . The Socialist party must become a national , a genuine American party . It should not concentrate all its activities in industrial centers ignoring such big groups of our society , as the middle , professional classes . There is a great mass of people who are discontented , who realize that there is something fundamentally wrong with our abnormal system and who would like to sec a radical change ? people of all classes ? and who would gladly listen to the philosophy of socialism ? if it were intelligently presented to them . The Progressive party polled a vote of almost 4,000o000 four years ago . Where have the votes gone this year ? They were cast for Wilson ? because he was the most progressive man in the field . Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic but non-partisan . They were cast by people who believe in progress and liberal legislation and who thought Wilson was the right man . There were a good many near Socialists among them . If Benson had conducted a more rational campaign ? if he had not made militarism the only issue of his campaign ? thus making the people think that the Socialist party is merely a pacifist party ? but had discussed American conditions from a socialistic standpoint , then a good many of the Wilson votes would have been cast for him . But Benson ignored the issues which were for Debs the main issues : high cost of living , unemployment , social insurance , shorter hours , regulation of wages , labor legislation , etc . Benson 's campaign was absolutely un-American and no wonder that the American voters preferred Wilson . Debs was running at a time when a Progressive party was in the field and yet he doubled his party 's vote . The Socialist party can only succeed when it becomes a constructive , a reformative and above all a nationalistic political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educational field , however , it should continue its philosophic and economic theories , it should organize various educational forums : there international problems will be discussed . But a philosophy must not be a political issue because at present the people are not ready for it . In one word , the Socialist party ought to continue its energetic propaganda of socialism only in the educational field ? as a non-political organization ? while on the political side it must become a genuine , constructive party . Also I agree with the editor that the Socialist press must become a little better . A press that is voicing a new philosophy , a press which is fighting for a human and rational system ? must not become as commercialized as the rest of the yellow press . The Socialist press must have the best literature , the finest information . Truth must be the fundamental motto . There is no reason for the Socialists to be discouraged . The sentiment for reforms is growing rapidly ; the sentiment for transformation of our chaotic capitalistic system is evident in all spheres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future in America . MICHAEL ALTSCHULER . For Proletarian Party S IR : While the editors of THE NEW REPUBLIC may not regard it as complimentary , it is true nevertheless , that your magazine performs the function that a genuine Socialist paper should perform . It is critical of contemporary life without being emotionally intoxicated . At the same time it is critical of the organization which seeks to remedy the conditions . Your issue of December 2nd excelled in both these regards . The reforms advocated in your editorial " How Can the Socialist Party Live , " though highly speculative have the merit of being based on genuine defects of the organization . However , in a blundering way , the Socialist party has sought to improve itself in the manner suggested , and in so far as they have carried out the policy , their membership has diminished . Mr. Simons , in " The Future of the Socialist Party , " is perhaps a little too anxious , yet he has shown keen penetration in analyzing the situation and has made some wonderful generalizations . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Socialist party on account of the influex of academicians , preachers , middle-class politicians , and the Home Rule Irish , with their preachments and tricks to foster middle class morality . To-day , they are the dominant factor in the Socialist party , almost to the exclusion of the workingman 's influence . Mr. Benson was an anachronism ? muckraker , with a socialist label . The Chicago party is owned , body , boots and breeches , by academicdown-and-outs , clientless lawyers , and the Home Rule faction of the Catholic Irish . Of course , these misfits should have a forum to air their grievances , but workingmen who fully realize that their labor is bought and sold on the market in exactly the same way as " pig-iron , chewing gum and bibles , " will not long consent to furnish the excuse and the means of their furthering their political ambitions . And lastly , Mr. Editor , workingmen are not interested or at best , only sympathetically interested , in the cause of Home Rule , the progress of the German arms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or not Mr. Kennedy , in 1917 A.D. , retains his seat in the City Council . SAMUEL W. BALL . Chicago , Illinois . Need for Congressional Record S IR : Mr. Dickinson 's article in your issue of No vember 25th on " Abuse of the Franking Privilege " ( a thorough and interesting description of an annoying symptom " ) does not diagnose the unfulfilled need which underlies the abuse . Just as our modern psychotherapy has penetrated into the hidden causes of so-called " evil " and shown how we must ascertain the unfulfilled desire and find some legitimate outlet for it , so surely we have made sufficient strides in social psychology to avoid our old " reform " method of merely describing and decrying irritating symptoms in our political and social system . In the same issue there is an interesting account of the remarkable work of Robert Valentine , whose success is well attributed to the fact that he sought to go to the roots of every situation . If , penetrating the surface manifestations , we search for the unfulfilled need which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analogy of personal psychology , is merely the " compromise " an inadequate outlet has forced , we shall find it , I believe , in this case in the necessity of providing our politicians with some means of getting their ideas and propaganda across to their constituents -- surely a necessity in a democracy . In addition to the lack of facilities accorded the legislator to enable him to keep in touch with and educate his constituents , there is the thoroughly unsatisfactory provision for the propaganda of candidates , particularly in large constituencies . An unfair advantage is given the rich man or the man who can get the support of the party machine ? surely an unsatisfactory arrangement in a democracy . Because of lack of proper means of filling these needs we thus have on the one hand such an abuse of the franking privilege as is described and on the other hand the influence of private capital on politics owing to the necessity of enlisting its support in order to finance any candidacy . How are we to provide adequate vehicles to meet this purpose ? Here is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be thought through and constructively treated . To throw out some raw suggestions , might not in the first place a printing and franking privilege be frankly accorded to legislators under proper restrictions and legislation ? Also could not some free method of reaching the public , possibly through a publicly supported journal or publicly maintained halls , be available to prospective candidates ? Valid difficulties and objections may spring up in one 's mind to such suggestions , but it is certainly well that it be recognized that we have an important question here , which has been neglected .                     