@@141050

Assembled in Cleveland last week for a two-day annual convention was that exclusive little trade organization , the Associated Stock Exchanges . It has only 22 members , though the full roster of U. S. stockmarkets including the Honolulu Stock Exchange and the Manila Stock Exchange numbers 30. * Out of that total 21 are registered with the Securities &; Exchange Commission as " national securities exchanges . " The rest , largely local in character , enjoy temporary exemption pending SEC investigation . Even among registered markets only two are really national institutions-the New York Stock Exchange , which accounts for about 86% of the total dollar volume of market trading , and the New York Curb Exchange , which accounts for 9% . The remaining 5% of the business done on registered exchanges is shared by 19 little stockmarkets throughout the land . The presidents of these little exchanges are just as concerned about their problems as the New York Stock Exchange 's Charles Richard Gay or the Curb 's Fred C. Moffatt . In Cleveland last week they complained bitterly about present high margin requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculators to foreign markets or into other fields like real estate or commodities . Soothing speeches from SEChairman James McCauley Landis and other Federal market policemen failed to quiet their fears . Moreover , Federal regulation itself seemed to be favoring Manhattan markets at the expense of the little exchanges . They have lost a good number of securities because corporations preferred delisting to filing a registration statement . Furthermore , because a listing on a small exchange requires the same painful revelations as on the New York Stock Exchange , corporations tended to seek listing there in addition to a listing on a local market . When that happens local trading generally begins to dry up . Some small exchanges , like those in Buffalo , Denver and Hartford , have simply closed their doors . The Los Angeles Curb merged with the Los Angeles Stock Exchange , the California Stock Exchange with the San Francisco Stock Exchange . Three were put out of business by the SEC - the New York Mining Exchange , the securities end of the New York Produce Exchange and the notorious Boston Curb . <P> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , W. Va. , the Louisville , Ky. and the Reno , Nev. exchanges . On the Richmond Stock Exchange Virginians dabble in tobaccos , local utilities , Southern bank and insurance shares . The Seattle Stock Exchange is divided between mining issues and Pacific Coast industries like Jantzen Knitting ( bathing suits ) , Carnation Co. ( milk ) and Alaska Pacific Salmon . <P> Next to the Big Board and the Curb the leading U. S. stockmarket is the Boston Stock Exchange , a large part of whose volume is made up of trading in standard stocks with a State Street flavor . The Chicago Stock Exchange ranks fourth , the San Francisco Stock Exchange fifth . Smallest registered market is the New York Real Estate Securities Exchange , where , during the depth of Depression , days would pass without a single sale . Typical little stockmarkets are the following :                     