@@430350

Mr. Henry S. Haines speaks as an authority on railway questions . A member of the Societies of Civil and Mechanical Engineers , he has in turn acted as vice-president and general manager of the " Plant System " of railroad and steamship lines and as a commissioner of the Southern States Freight Association , and he is widely and favorably known as a critic through his books on " Railway Management " and " Restrictive Railway Legislation . " In a new volume he pursues the subject of railway control through nine chapters , delivered as lectures less than a year ago before the Boston University School of Law . After discussing the nature of the public service rendered by a railroad , the benefits conferred by it on the public , and the burdens imposed by it on the public , he comes to his main purpose ? " the amelioration of the existing relations between railway corporations and the public whom they serve . " This is attempted in the four final chapters on the results of ineffectual control , the reasonableness of rates , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service . Here we have a model treatise on a vexing question . Approaching this from the " inside " standpoint , equipped with expert experience , and yet with an a priori handicap ? in the reader 's opinion ? through his very identification in sympathy with the railway managers , he soon commands respectful and admiring attention through his dispassionate and judicial frame of mind , which never once fails him . He sees as a railway man ? he sees as truly as one of the great travelling and shipping and consuming public . The tone and the temper are as admirable as though he might be a university professor of railway economics engaged in academic discussion . This contrasts favorably with the almost petulant impatience displayed in the recent special message of President Roosevelt , as he contemplates the obdurate federal judge who decides according to his conviction as to the law and the Constitution . We note the following passage : " Cases ( under the Interstate Commerce Act ) were contested step by step from the hearings before the Commission up through the lower courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its interpretation . But in each case that court restricted its decision , as far as practicable , to the issues directly involved in the ease on appeal ; and frequently it happened that the appeal resulted in the case being sent back , either to a lower court with instructions , or to the Commission for a rehearing . It was a slow process , and one which severely tested the patience of those who felt that their grievances remained in the meantime unremedied . Yet it was necessarily consequent upon the application of legislation in an untried field of such magnitude , and which was occupied by a conflict of complicated interests . By degrees the decisions of the Supreme Court dissipated the obscurity which had overshadowed the provisions of the Act , and pointed out the way to their proper interpretation . " In this connection Mr. Merritt does equal justice to the Commission and to the Federal courts when he discerningly says : The present Commission is composed of men of undoubted integrity and of great individual acumen . They have been battling with some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men . The subject-matter with which they are dealing is of comparatively recent origin . Their decisions can- not be based upon a long line of judicial opinions . It is net at all surprising , therefore , that they have made mistakes . That those individuals whose limited field of investigation has been entirely confined to those cases where the decisions of the Commission have appeared the weakest , the purpose of whose investigations has been to find fault with the work of the Commission , should find abundant material for their purpose , is by no means remarkable . . . . With regard to the points of law upon which the Commission and the Courts have been at variance , the Commission has in each case assumed the reasonable interpretation which would give to the Interstate Commerce Law the broad application which its framers evidently intended that it should have , while the Courts on the other hand have narrowed and moulded its application till its interpretation is more in accordance with the genius of our institutions , which is to give the largest possible range to private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all , by which policy it is believed that in the long run the greatest good will be secured for the greatest number . " It may be pertinent to add that Courts which have given some recent decisions that are in every memory , deserve courteous treatment on the part of a government whose hands they have so much strengthened . The decision in the Brown case in 1896 , which enables the government to give complete immunity to witnesses , and so secure testimony previously unattainable ; the Joint-Traffic decision in 1899 and the Addyston Pipe Company decision in 1899 , which brought under the ban of the Sherman Act of 1890 any form of combination in restraint of trade by railroads and industrials respectively ; and the Northern Securities decision in 1904 , which forbade the railroads to smuggle in again the trust form of combination in the guise of a holding company ; these alone , out of a number , bear sufficient testimony to the cooperation of the Federal bench in the arduous undertaking of preventing injurious monopoly . When in 1892 the famous decision by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his refusal to possibly incriminate himself , and Congress passed in the next session an act of immunity for witnesses under such circumstances , Judge Grosscup , in the notable decision for James and McLeod , still sustained these witnesses in their refusal to testify , on the ground that the statute did not secure to a witness his place in society , his good name in the world . " Just now it is interesting to recall that the administration of that day did not publicly censure Judge Grosscup for a decision which arrested its procedure ? for the government could not carry a criminal case further by appeal to a higher court . Silently the department of justice took up the line of march de novo on a similar case that came up just then in a lower court in Pennsylvania , and after three years the administration was rewarded for its patience and composure when , in the Brown case , the Supreme Court sustained the helpful decision rendered in the two lower courts . Mr. Haines , when he discusses rate-making , gets away from a crude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a brutal " what the traffic will bear . " He says : " Viewing the service of transportation as a contract relation , the standard for determining the reasonableness of the compensation demanded for rendering a specific service should include , as one of its elements , a recognition of the value of the service to the person for whose benefit it is performed , as well as the cost to the person performing it . . . . The cost is the lowest compensation that the carrier would accept ; its value to the traveller or shipper is the highest compensation that he would pay . Somewhere between these limits there is a balance or reasonable adjustment of the benefit to each of the parties to the transaction . " That " somewhere " he further indicates in saying : " An average standard of service should be established as to speed of trains , character of equipment , and other conditions as to safety , comfort and convenience ; the number and frequency of such trains should be suited to the average requirements of the people in general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate per mile per passenger . . . . Viewing the railroad company as a public servant , it would be expected to meet the necessary requirements of the public at large at the actual cost of service , that cost including a fair rate of interest upon the investment in private property . . . . If the necessary requirements of the travelling public are to be furnished at cost , where is the profit to the railroad stockholder , the inducement to invest money in the performance of a public service ? The answer is based upon the other element of a reasonable rate ? the value of the service performed in each specific transaction apart from its value as a necessary requirement for the people in general . The specific value to each person is in the different character of the service rendered , the difference to be measured by the departure from the average service required for the average mileage rate of fare . " Mr. Haines suggests that this departure from the average service may involve greater speed , or better accommodations , and that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for what they could obtain . He would make an average service second class , a better than average first class , and a less than average third class . This is his proposition for passenger traffic . Coming to freight traffic , he seeks to find " some commodity which in weight and bulk constitutes an average percentage of the total traffic , and which is not susceptible of the distinctions as to inherent qualities , manner of packing , and insurable value , which affect the classification of most commodities for transportation by rail . It should be a commodity in  | such general use that fluctuations in its price would not merely affect a class of users , but would exert a general and profound influence upon the public welfare . " He finds this in bituminous coal , and would base a reasonable rate on the average cost of service per ton mile , eliminating the elements of equipment other than motive power and those of receipt and delivery , since these may be and have been handled in private cars on private terminals . Space does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth by Mr. Haines against government ownership , but a few words must be given to his suggestions for a more rational and effective control of railroads . He would " make the corporations penally responsible for results , ? its officials also , if you please , ? but leave the means to them . " He would secure the advantages of unified railroad management and of efficient government supervision , without permitting further consolidation or resorting to State ownership , by taking into counsel with the Interstate Commerce Commission the American Railway Association and the traffic associations . The sooner public opinion removes the ban of outlawry from railway men as such , the sooner we may come to some rational control which recognizes the values and the rights involved on either side . This book is an admirable chapter added to the fruitful discussion of railway problems . One misleading misprint should be corrected in another edition by the insertion of a decimal point before the figures on page 111 giving the passenger rates in Germany , Russia , and India . Mr. Merritt 's work on " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response to the generosity of Messrs . Hart , Schaffner , and Marx of Chicago , and is a careful and dispassionate piece of work . After showing that rates in this country have not been excessive , and that the public grievance is discrimination rather than extortion , the writer justifies federal control and condemns rate-making by a commission . In an excellent discussion of a rational plan for public control of rate-making , he suggests that something must be wrong with the present commission plan in that it has produced such general dissatisfaction . He gives the Commission due credit , and explains the fact that ninety per cent of the cases which it has carried to the courts have been decided against it , in the passage we have already cited . The radical basis of the weakness of the present Commission he very justly finds in the inconsistency of its functions . It is to the railroads " police magistrate , prosecuting attorney , and judge ; the law imposes upon it both the administrative duty of investigating alleged violations of the law , and of prosecuting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quasi judicial duty of sitting as a court to try the eases in which it is itself frequently the prosecutor . " He is not pleased with the discretionary power to fix rates given to the Commission by the Hepburn law , and his own constructive contribution to this discussion is the suggestion of a special court for the handling of railway cases , to which the Commission could present its findings . To the objection that such a court could not be empowered to fix rates , but could merely declare certain rates illegal , and that an endless series of such declarations might be made necessary by the nominal reduction in infinitesimal sums , he well replies that a court can always enjoin the whole as well as the part of an unlawful thing . This book , while inferior in command of English style to the one reviewed with it , is of equal value as to the temper and the matter .  |                     