@@432150

Fears of global catastrophe are rising again in the face of a " second wave " of a Third World debt crisis . Whether international banks can withstand this assault will be a close call , but economic prospects favor survival ? at least for the moment . That 's the cautious assessment of monetary authorities who gathered here in mid-June to gauge the ability of international bankers to prevent developing nations from stumbling under their enormous debts . These countries now owe foreign lenders some 700 billion dollars , including some 300 billion to private banks . At least 25 poor lands are already behind on their interest payments . All Third World nations owe about $700 billion to foreign banks , governments and other lenders . Failure to keep these countries from defaulting could topple more than one bank and severely weaken the world 's financial system . " The debt bomb is still ticking , " warns an official attending the annual meeting of the Bank for International Settlements , which coordinates payments among central banks . The first wave of the international banking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other developing countries warned of defaults . The International Monetary Fund quickly went to work . The multinational agency , which helps its member countries cope with foreign-exchange difficulties , made billions of dollars available to countries that agreed to cut government spending and reduce imports . It then coaxed private banks into renewing and even enlarging their loans . Now , many of the rescue packages are falling short of the mark or simply falling apart . Mexico is likely to need more this year ? on top of the 10 billion in emergency loans pledged by banks and other lenders in February . Experts do n't know where this money will come from or when it will be repaid . Brazil is having trouble meeting the IMF 's requirements . As a result , many bankers are reluctant to lend the country the additional 4.4 billion it needs in order to qualify for nearly 5 billion dollars in IMF aid . Venezuela is unable to handle its debt payments but is unwilling to adopt tough economic measures that are bound to foment social unrest in a crucial election year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfy the IMF 's austerity program , private loans may not be forthcoming . Banks in Italy , France , West Germany , Austria and Switzerland , as well as regional U.S. banks , are unsettled by the possibility that a sovereign borrower could default ; many are leaving the global loan business . This shakeout lessens the chances that developing countries will raise the 15 to 20 billion dollars in new bank loans needed this year . The success of the bailout plans depends on a major business upturn throughout the world to boost export earnings of developing countries . However , analysts see few signs of enough improvement in Europe and Japan . Norbert Walter , a West German forecaster , expects business conditions to improve through 1984 but fears a recession in the following two years . Mounting pressures in industrial nations to erect trade barriers pose yet another threat to the banking system . U.S. Federal Reserve Governor Nancy Teeters warned an international bankers ' meeting in Israel on June 14 that protectionism will make it even more difficult for borrowing nations to earn desperately needed export @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a resurgence in inflation . Interest rates will climb higher and the business recovery will collapse if prices spiral upward again , experts in Basel warn . Despite fears of this " second wave " debt crisis , there is a general confidence that monetary authorities will succeed in  | keeping the world 's banking system from crumbling . For one thing , the picture is not all gloomy . Says Karl Otto Pohl , president of West Germany 's Bundesbank , " We are not up against a global debt problem . The real trouble is concentrated in relatively few major debtor nations . " Many of the strapped nations pose no serious threat to the financial system . The combined debts of Nigeria , Zaire and other African lands total 90 billion dollars ? no more than what Brazil owes . Southeast Asian countries are still deemed creditworthy as competitive and successful exporters . Taiwan , with only 18 million people , enjoys the same export earnings as Brazil , even though the latter has a population of 130 million . Hong Kong , South Korea and Singapore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major oil producer . Soviet-bloc debts total about 63 billion dollars but are not a major concern at the moment . Eastern Europe has worked hard to put its financial house in order since the Polish debt crisis in late 1981 , and the bloc now reports a sizable trade surplus with the West . Then , too , defaults by countries are unlikely events . Defaulting nations risk having their exports and foreign-based assets seized by creditors . Moreover , countries that walk away from their debts will have to wait a long time before any bank or foreign government offers assistance . Western industrial powers will go to great lengths to keep a major-country Deeper in Nock ? Estimated New Borrowing Needed by Nations Involved in Loan Restructuring Debts Now to Foreign Banks Chile j bit . $11.8 bil . 511il. borrower afloat financially . In the case of a country 's default , a safety net maintained by the Federal Reserve and other central banks would prevent a global chain reaction of bank failures . Fritz Leutwiler , chairman of the BIS , is confident that central banks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banking system from a default . However , the U.S. and other countries would suffer substantial economic hardship . Defaults by both Mexico and Brazil would wipe out the capital of the nine biggest banks in the U.S. and weaken the entire banking system . Bankers in the U.S. and Europe are aware of this danger , and some have started writing off questionable loans to private borrowers in countries that ca n't raise the foreign exchange needed to repay debts . Loan-loss reserves are being beefed up to cushion earnings against defaults . In the meantime , bankers are scrambling to salvage loans to Brazil and other hot spots in the global debt mess . While no grand plan has emerged , bankers know they must find more money to buy the time needed to work out the long-term debt problems . Stretching repayment schedules over 10 years or longer will give debt-ridden countries a chance to readjust their economies . Self-control required . More important , top European bankers say , world inflation has to be held down in order to foster lower interest rates for borrowers and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not only must industrialized nations keep annual price increases down , these bankers maintain , but developing countries have to get a handle on their chronic , runaway inflation rates . It is agreed that Argentina can not continue with an inflation rate of 300 percent , nor can Brazil survive a rate that now exceeds 100 percent . By bringing their inflation rates down , " Mexico , Brazil and Argentina could turn the tide in a few years time , " argues Nikolaus Senn , head of the Union Bank of Switzerland . Concludes Wilfried Guth , a West German banker : " We will have to face ? and master ? several more difficult years before we can hope to see the famous light at the end of the tunnel . " The world economy should advance at a respectable clip this year and next ? if oil prices stay put and the U.S. sustains a recovery without pushing up interest rates , says the International Monetary Fund . The 146-nation agency predicts that production of goods and services by industrialized nations over the next 18 months will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjustment for inflation . In 1982 , output in these countries dipped slightly . Third World nations can expect real growth to average 2 to 2.5 percent . For countries that do n't export oil , that 's a moderate improvement over last year 's scant rise of 1.5 percent . Still , poor nations are moving forward at half the pace achieved in the late 1960s and 1970s . While 1983 's progress will help ease the burden of repaying billions in debts to foreign lenders , painful belt-tightening measures , rampant inflation and incessant population growth in most developing countries rule out any significant bettering of their domestic conditions . The economies of petroleumproducing countries are also expected to increase by 2.5 percent ? bad news to a group that posted gains of 3.5 percent in 1982 and 5 percent the year before that . Any further weakening of oil 's value would aggravate this slowdown . The key factor . The accuracy of the IMF projections depends in large part on the performance of American business and Washington policymakers . If the IMF is right , the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively speedy 4 percent by year-end , with price hikes limited to 3 percent . But , warns the IMF , unless Congress and the Reagan administration quickly work out a way to significantly reduce the huge deficits now built into future federal budgets , interest rates and consumer prices will zoom upward again . The upshot in that event : Economic growth both here and abroad would falter .                     