@@292850

As plumbing goes , nuclear power plants exceed Rube Goldberg 's wildest fantasies . The basic idea sounds simple-unstable heavy atoms , like those of uranium 235 , break up ( fission ) . Scattered in all directions are electrically neutral particles called neutrons as well as fission products such as shortlived radioactive xenon , krypton and iodine . The neutrons hit still other atoms like errant billiard balls in a chain reaction that produces heat . But obtaining useful energy from this process can be extremely complex . Pennsylvania 's Three Mile Island nuclear plant has two pressurized water reactors . Such reactors are based on a design pioneered for nuclear submarines by the redoubtable Admiral Hyman Rickover . <P> The reactor 's power center is its fuel core . Housed in a pressure-cooker-like reactor vessel , the core is filled with pellets of fissionable uranium packed in bundles of thin cylindrical zircaloy rods . Inserted into the core are still other rods , usually made of cadmium or boron , which absorb and retain neutrons given off by the uranium atoms-in effect , stopping the billiards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reactor , the control rods are raised to precisely calculated levels . The chain reaction begins , converting mass into energy and producing great quantities of heat in the process . That raises the temperature of the water surrounding the core to nearly 600 F. Under high pressure this water is carried off by the cooling system 's primary loop , a complex system of pipes , to a heat exchanger called a steam generator . The heat is transferred from the radioactive water of the primary loop to the uncontaminated water of the separate secondary loop , where the water is quickly heated to steam that drives a turboelectric generator , which in turn produces electricity . <P> At the slightest hint of trouble , the reactor 's computer is programmed to drop the control rods back into the core . That curtails the core 's chain reaction , but heat is still given off . If the core 's temperature rises precipitously as a result of the problem , possibly a loss of cooling fluid ( a " blowdown " ) , the computer will activate an emergency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of gallons of water on the hot core , preventing what has become known as a " meltdown , " in which the fuel melts through the floor of the containment building into the ground and possibly erupts in a geyser of steam and debris upon hitting the ground water , releasing a radioactive cloud into the air . As the final precaution , the reactor and primary loop are shielded by a thick concrete containment dome , which should prevent the venting of any radioactivity into the atmosphere-as long as a meltdown does not occur and if there are no other mishaps or blunders . Obviously , at Three Mile Island , these fail-safe systems somehow failed .                     