@@476350

SIX years had passed since the nations of the world gathered in San Francisco 's Opera House to create the United Nations . Now fifty-one of them were met again in the same setting to conclude and sign a treaty of peace with Japan . The interval had recorded some transcendental events in world history : the emergence , for example , of new self-governing nations like India , Pakistan , and Indonesia , signifying a basic trend toward self-determination in the underprivileged parts of the globe ; the conquest of the most populous territory , mainland China , by communism . Also the interval had marked the development ? to state the anticlimax ? of television as a means of mass communication . But was it wholly anticlimax ? Never in history had so many people witnessed the signing of a major international treaty as that signed in San Francisco on September 8 , nor had a comparable audience ever listened in on , and watched , the debates that preceded the signature . Here was a covenant sealed before so many millions that the witnesses could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not by nose-count . There were more reasons than one why the Japanese Peace Treaty Conference was primarily a television show . It was a ceremonial ? the treaty itself had been worked out in advance and the assembled nations had been invited to sign or not to sign . As such its value as spot news was lessened , although 1,044 correspondents covered its sessions . It was held in a structure whose design permitted only the strategically placed selenium eye to look in any direction at will ( the news correspondents never did get through beefing about their dress-circle seats ) and thus give the nation-wide audience both mass shots and closeups . " I saw Mr. Gromyko raise his eyebrows , " remarked a correspondent 's wife to her husband . " I 'll bet that was more than you could see . " Indeed it was . If the images from San Francisco that flashed across the continent in one sixtysecondth of a second were mere shadows , they existed only because there was real substance behind them . The fight was a fight over technicalities : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sign or not to sign . Yet it was a fight that took place only because indirectly it brought the nations to grips with one of the hard central facts of postwar world politics . Essentially it was the forcing of a showdown between Russia and the free world over the future of Japan , a shoWdown deliberately sought by the United States . For all its cut and dried ceremonial , it was a show filled with dramatic moments . It had its villains , the black-suited Russians led by Andrei Gromyko who traveled in groups around the Opera House corridor with the sinister air of so many life-size automatons . It had conflict , with Poland 's frizzy-haired Stefan Wierblowski jamming the public address system , and the electronic translating machines of the delegates , with shrill protests while Britain 's Kenneth Younger was speaking . It had a period of suspense , when no one felt really sure that there would be a happy ending . But like good formula drama , it did have a happy ending . In the final act the plenipotentiaries of forty-eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desk below the stage and wrote their names on the parchment . ALso it had unexpected twists of plot . Why did Russia fail so miserably to wreck the conference , or at least drag it out while playing one nation against another on the basis of unsatisfied national interests ? Those who still imagine that the Russians are inconceivably clever just because they keep their mouths shut before and after their tactical moves were inclined to the explanation that for propaganda reasons Mr. Gromyko wanted to be railroaded . If so , he achieved his purpose admirably . From start to finish the Communist bloc ? Russia , Poland , and Czechoslovakia ? remained in splendid isolation , although the free nations were able to pick and choose on the technical issues , demonstrating the fact of their individuality as no propaganda could , while abstaining from voting with the Russians . More than anything else , the basic reason was that the pillars of the Japanese peace had been solidly built . They were sound . The logic of the American position , as expounded officially by Mr. Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the twisted logic of communism . One of the surprises of the conference was an indication of how the logic had sunk home in Asia , even though one of Asia 's most eminent figures , Jawaharlal Nehru , had rejected it . It came in the expression of Ceylon 's delegate , J. R. Jayewardene , Minister of Finance , who said : " I claim that at the present moment the treaty represents the largest common measure of agreement that could be attained among the countries that were willing to discuss peace with Japan . . . . There were sharp differences of opinion , and the treaty embodies the majority view . My government would have preferred it if some of those questions were answered in a different way , but the fact that the majority do n't agree with us is no reason why we should abstain from signing the treaty , which contains the central concept of a free and independent Japan . " This was , after all , only another way of expressing a thought put more tersely and eloquently by Mr. Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " when to seek the perfect is to lose the good . This is such a time . " The United States scored a grand slam at San Francisco because over Russian objections it convinced all the invited non-Communist nations that the achieving of peace-was , in President Truman 's words , " like repairing the many strands of an intercontinental cable ; each strand must be spliced separately and patiently , until the full flow of communications has been restored . " II A LTHOUGH the Japanese Peace Treaty called forth the work of many statesmen , the continuing , underlying drive came from one man , John Foster Dulles , who acquired the assignment almost haphazardly . Mr. Dulles had been appointed a special adviser to the State Department in March 1950 , at the insistence of Senator Arthur Vandenberg of Michigan . He was in the Truman Administration 's doghouse as a result of his New York Senatorial race against Herbert Lehman ; but Senator Vandenberg , on whom the Administration relied heavily for support of its foreign policy in Congress , made it clear that if bipartisanship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formulation , as well as enactment , of policy . As a result Mr. Dulles and another Republican , John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky , were given posts in the State Department . Mr. Dulles attended high-level conferences and was kept informed of what was going on , but was given nothing specific to do . From his observation point it seemed to him the State Department was making no progress in several directions because too many people had to agree before any positive action could be taken . One day he said to Secretary Acheson : " You 'll never get anything done unless you select someone in whom you have confidence , give him a job to do , and then hold him to results . Look at the Japanese Peace Treaty ? the department has been discussing it for four years without result . Why do n't you give someone one year in which to get action , with the understanding that if he ca n't do it , he fails ? Give him a target and enough authority to get there . " It was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intermittently over the treaty . The United States proposed a conference at which the majority of Far Eastern Commission nations would decide treaty disputes . Russia countered with a demand for a four-power conference . Russia 's use of the veto had brought negotiations over Germany and Austria to a complete standstill , and in the light of this it seemed useless to go ahead on Japan . Nevertheless , various State Department committees held meetings and drafted possible treaty clauses -- some eighty single-spaced foolscap pages of them . By late 1949 , although the obstructionism of Russia remained ? in the State Department view ? as a potential roadblock , the need for a treaty became more and more urgent . Mr. Acheson was impressed by Mr. Dulles ' suggestion , and soon afterward he assigned him to take over the handling of the treaty . The government had not yet decided , however , whether as a matter of national policy there should be a treaty . The Pentagon was reluctant to give up the command relationship it held over Japan through SCAP . Mr. Dulles discovered that , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan , it was necessary to achieve peace between the State and Defense Departments . 1 N PURSUING this task he made his first trip to Tokyo . His aim was to make sure it was time to make peace , and formulate the principles which should guide it . General Omar Bradley , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , happened to be in Japan at the same time , and in three-cornered discussions with General MacArthur the groundwork was laid for an agreement based on the practical logic of the times . MacArthur supported the contention that after several years any occupation was bound to show diminishing returns . The Japanese had behaved admirably for five years , and were beginning to feel they had earned the right to regain their sovereignty . If cheated of this goal , sullenness and resist ance could be expected to rise , and once a nation of 83 million souls decided to fight further subjugation it would be hard to handle . The time to act was before this stage was reached . Scarcely had an informal meeting of minds taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , introducing a new fact into the postwar world : the totalitarian countries were ready to use military force , and risk world war , to achieve their ends . For a few weeks the treaty had to wait while the United States took stock . But assessment of the new situation convinced American officials that peace with Japan was even more necessary than before . The islands had been denuded of troops for Korea , and the Occupation was scarcely more than a name . The issue was brought formally to a head after Mr. Dulles ' return to Washington . The two departments came to a political decision when the Secretaries of State and Defense signed a memorandum which was endorsed by President Truman the next day , September 8 , 1950 . The President made Mr. Dulles his official representative , with the rank of Ambassador , to handle the matter . T HE decision was to seek peace . But what kind ? Mr. Dulles ' approach stemmed from his experience as a young man at the Versailles Peace Conference of 1919 , when he had seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Woodrow Wilson . As a member of the American delegation he had witnessed the writing of a vengeful peace which built up resentment in Germany which Hitler was able to exploit and which led to World War II . " You can have one of two kinds of peace , " Mr. Dulles said . " One is a Carthaginian peace , which is cruel , ruthless , inflexible , and must be enforced with military strength for a long time . It is a peace that can tolerate no infractions whatever . The other is a peace based on the belief that human nature is capable of regeneration ; that if it fails at times , it is capable of better ways of life . This kind of peace is one of magnanimity based on power . " There is no half way between these two kinds of peace . You must have one or the other . We want the kind of peace that has a good chance of making Japan and the United States close associates in the future . It can not be done without the free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reconciliation . " It was with this philosophy that Mr. Dulles approached his task . The next problem was one of procedure . How to go about writing a treaty ? The traditional way was to call an international conference ? but that would involve Soviet Russia with her built-in veto . Moreover , during the years of inaction , a new complication had been added to the Far Eastern power situation : Communists had conquered the Chinese mainland and set up a government recognized by seventeen nations , though not by the United States . It raised seemingly insuperable problems of recognition for a conference . Mr. Dulles decided to proceed " through diplomatic channels , " which meant that the United States , taking the lead , would confer separately with the other interested nations . This made it possible for Mr. Dulles to talk to Great Britain 's Sir Oliver Franks in the morning and Nationalist China 's Dr. Wellington Koo in the afternoon when it would have been impossible for the three to meet formally at luncheon for the same purpose . It enabled Mr. Dulles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an evening for a frank , hair-down talk about the treaty ? although it never prevented Mr. Malik from using every propaganda cliche in the Soviet repertoire in the halls of the United Nations next day . By November 1950 , discussions had proceeded far enough so that the United States circulated among the nations of the Far Eastern Commission , including Russia , a seven-point memorandum embodying the main principles which it sought to write into the treaty . Almost immediately the progress was upset by full-scale Chinese Communist intervention in the Korean war . Planning was shelved again until the effects of this development could be assessed . But by late January it was apparent the Chinese attack had not been decisive . Mr. Dulles , eager to get things roll ; ing again , made a second trip to Tokyo . F ROM his discussions up to this point , Mr. Dulles knew the problem that had to be solved to get a treaty written was the problem of security . " Security , " said Mr. Dulles , " has not been , and never is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two directions . It meant some sort of guarantee for Japan , which faced the prospect of being turned loose in the polarized world of /950-51 without army , navy , or air force to defend its regained sovereignty . The United States had positive reasons for not wanting her industrial potential gathered within the Iron Curtain , integrated with the resources of Manchuria , and thus made available to help provide the Communist world with the kind of economy which could underwrite a long war and possibly win it . In view of this , the United States could be counted on to supply the sea and air power needed to protect Japan ; but after peace her troops would have to get out and leave the task of land defense to Japan 's 75,000 policemen . Security also meant giving assurance to nations which had been occupied or threatened by Japan that the late enemy would be prevented from rebuilding an aggressive military machine . This problem was not so acute in the Philippines , which had granted American base rights and arranged for an American Military Assistance Advisory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Australia and New Zealand . Although Mr. Dulles was personally convinced that the war-depleted Japanese economy could not support an aggressive militarism in the foreseeable future , he recognized the political psychology of it . Mr. Dulles devoted his second Pacific trip to clearing up the security problem . With President Truman 's approval he made a speech in Tokyo offering the Japanese American troops as garrison forces after conclusion of the treaty ? provided the Japanese wanted them . Details could be worked out later and a special treaty consummated after the peace pact . The Japanese willingly accepted . To Australia and New Zealand Mr. Dulles offered a mutual assistance pact , pledging that the United States would regard an attack on either of them an attack on itself . This was announced later in Washington . It is noteworthy that every time a major step was agreed on , Mr. Dulles made a public statement or a speech about it . After security , the big problems were economic , particularly reparations . It was only natural that the Philippines , whose cities had been bombed to rubble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damage ? a feeling shared by other victims also . Mr. Dulles recognized the justness of this attitude , but he also knew that if Japan were to take her place in the Western lineup she had to be assured a healthy national economy . He knew that the United States , which had already poured into Japanese rehabilitation two billion of the tax dollars she had collected from her own citizens , and had sent thousands of them to help in the task , would have to underwrite the payments indirectly if the treaty exacted heavy cash reparations . He knew too , from the experience following Versailles , that if Japan , like Germany , knew her earnings would be taken away , it would rob her of any incentive to rebuild . On the subject of economic restrictions , therefore , Mr. Dulles marshaled his strongest arguments for a forgiving peace . Those who worked with him in the negotiations say he was never more forceful and eloquent than in stating the case against binding Japan with economic fetters . " If you use the lash , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exact reparations , if you constrict Japanese economic opportunity , if you act as jailer and master of slave labor , if you drive Japanese shipping off the seas and shut down her textile mills , you will create a peace that can only lead to bitter animosity and in the end drive Japan into the orbit of Russia . " This argument won out . The treaty provides that Japan pay reparations in the only way economically practicable : by providing free services , technical assistance , and manufacturing facilities to the nations she had injured . As an island nation she is allowed all the shipping she can create , and in the other elements of a viable economy she is left free to rebuild herself without artificial hindrance . S TEADILY the treaty was taking shape ; steadily , but not smoothly . One crisis centered on General MacArthur 's removal as Supreme Commander . Mr. Dulles had been most careful from the start to keep the treaty out of partisan politics , and for some days he did not know whether the political MAGAZINE furore would engulf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? in all he flew 125,000 miles during the treaty-making year ? simply to assure the Japanese that General Mac-Arthur 's departure did not mean the end of the world . When General MacArthur 's subsequent blast at Administration policies omitted mention of the treaty , Mr. Dulles knew it had steered clear of the ruckus . There still was the job of reducing all the agreed principles to a treaty draft in legal language . The United States had circulated a draft in March and asked for suggestions . Mr. Dulles wanted to keep the treaty readable , and ignoring the eighty pages of clauses which had been gathering dust since 1947 , produced an eight-page initial draft . In the accretion of suggestions from other nations it inevitably grew longer , but it remained a relatively short document . In June there were enough points of dispute still at issue with Great Britain to make Mr. Dulles feel it necessary to take a flying trip to London . The British had worked up a draft of their own . Actually there were four main questions to be settled , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is possible only to cover the highlights of an operation as complicated as peace with Japan . the knottiest of the four will suffice to illustrate how diplomacy works in treaty-making . This was the dispute over which China to recognize . Great Britain had face to maintain in its recognition of Red China ? face that could be backed by rather cogent arguments about the " reality " of the situation , with Mao Tse-tung in practical control of the great bulk of Chinese territory . From the American standpoint , dealing with Red China was simply out of the question . In diplomacy you look over a treaty to see what points you are not interested in and then seek to use those points for bargaining . Examining the British suggestions , Mr. Dulles and his State Department deputy , John Allison , found what they sought in a pact called the Congo Basin Treaty , written at St. Germain-en-Laye in 1919 . Under its terms all countries had freedom of trade in Africa 's Congo Basin , and five nations ? the United States , Britain , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to World War It Japan had cornered 90 per cent of the area 's textile trade , seriously undercutting Britain 's business . The United States had no interest in the concession , but it was important to the British , who wanted Japan deprived of her favored position . The American negotiators held out until the last minute on this point , but finally yielded . Although the yielding was not a specific horse trade on the China issue , it created a graceful opportunity for Britain to accept the proposed American compromise on China : that neither China sign the treaty . This might look like unnecessary finesse to a Congress which tends to think in terms of " Do what we say or we 'll cut off ECA " ? but the fact is that it is far more effective with any nation endowed with an ounce of spunk . The London Economist 's Washington correspondent , commenting on Dulles ' tact in this matter , wrote : " Had Mr. Dulles insisted that the Chinese Nationalists should sign the treaty , he would have been acclaimed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a solution which would not offend the countries of the Commonwealth . " The compromise left it to Japan , after regaining sovereignty , to decide which China should sign peace with her . The result of the trip to London was joint sponsorship of a revised treaty text by Britain and the United States . The text was revised once again after that , embodying changes proposed by almost every nation which made suggestions , but its main outlines were unchanged . T HE steadiness of progress , however , began to alarm the Russians . After several protesting notes and aide-memoire , the Soviet Union unloaded a major objection in a note on May 7 . Although the Russians had been sent every memorandum and draft which was generally circulated , they proposed starting the job over again from scratch , with a four-power conference . Mr. Dulles read the note and started drafting a reply immediately on a yellow scratch pad , in longhand . In his professional career Mr. Dulles had been senior partner of the important New York law firm of Sullivan &; Cromwell . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rounds of the State Department and submitted to the White House , it came back with a handwritten notation in Mr. Truman 's angular script : " This is a jewel . " Secretary Acheson , himself a top-flight lawyer , hefted the document before his staff at next morning 's briefing and remarked : " This is one of Sullivan Sc Cromwell 's $25,000 briefs . " The Russians claimed the Potsdam Agreement had specified that four nations ? the United States , U.S.S.R. , Great Britain , and China ? draw up a treaty for Japan . Mr. Dulles replied that Japan was not mentioned in that connection , adding : " This was natural , for the war with Japan was then in full vigor and the Soviet Union was then neutral in that war . " The Russians pointed out that the Cairo agreement specified the return of Formosa and the Pescadores " to China . " Mr. Dulles noted that it also mentioned Manchuria and that what it said was " The Republic of China , " which was not the Soviet-recognized " Chinese People 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government of the United States inquires of the Soviet Union whether it in fact now desires that Manchuria , Formosa , and the Pescadores should be restored to The Republic of China . ' " As for Russia 's pretended concern about a future offensive military threat from Japan , the mote 's dry legal language did not fail to make a very sharp point : that the United States certainly was much more concerned about it than Russia since it " bore the burden of Japan 's war of aggression for nearly four years as against six days of Soviet Union belligerency . " When , in spite of all its protests , Russia accepted the American invitation to the San Francisco conference ? an invitation put on a take-it-or-leave-it basis ? most people following the treaty progress were surprised . The State Department 's professionals were not . They knew that Japan was one of the two great prizes of the postwar world in the struggle between Russia and the United States ? the other being Germany . They could not imagine the Soviet Union letting the island empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AT approximately the mid-point in the negotiation of the Japanese treaty , Assistant Secretary of State Dean Rusk , whose bailiwick is the Far East , looked back over the steps which had taken place and was struck by the thought that here was a model operation for future American diplomats to study . He considered detaching a foreign service officer to " live " with Mr. Dulles just to record the story so that budding statesmen might profit from learning how a master performed . Regretfully he concluded that the process was by then too far advanced to make such a project successful , but it was a tribute to the craftsmanship of the job . Although Mr. Dulles was a Republican and had been thrust on the department , State did not begrudge him his success . It gave him complete co-operation and saw to it that he was detached from all other duties to perform his assigned task . It supplied him with a topflight career officer , John Allison , as deputy ( Mr. Allison flew around the world in the interests of the treaty ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at his beck . When the show reached San Francisco , it became a team operation . Secretary Acheson called the signals , Mr. Dulles carried the ball , and Mr. Rusk organized the interference . There was work still to be done . While most of the free governments went to the conference inclined toward the treaty , many of them had misgivings based on political situations back home . There were groups in every important country opposing the treaty and their influence had to be taken-into account . It was important that the United States should understand what these domestic considerations were , and have a chance to offer its suggestions for coping with them . The obverse of this was that some would-be signers had doubts about the constancy of the United States , particularly in the light of Congressional moves which periodically threatened to undo Executive action in the foreign policy field . Was America getting them into combined commitments from which it would later withdraw , leaving them unable to carry on against Russia by themselves ? Such delegations had to be reassured . The backstage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of patient back-and-forth communication which steeled both sides to the task ahead . THE overall result was a remarkable demonstration of how the United States can win response if it accepts its newly achieved responsibilities and applies intelligent leadership to them . It was a diplomatic maneuver in which America seized the initiative and kept always ahead of events . It was hard-headed , based on American interests first because the United States was the responsible power , both in the Pacific war and afterward , and the contributor of her substance to the vanquished ; but it was also tactful . It was imaginative in the execution , for the Russians never got nearer than the sidelines , although they could have had a full partnership in it had they been willing to accept the democratic principle of compromise and majority rule . Most of all , it was making peace in the open . No major pillar of the peace was erected without a public display of it . Each time Mr. Dulles developed a new concept in the treaty-making , his procedure was to plumb its appeal with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about it in a major speech or policy statement . This often had the effect of creating political controversy while the public educational process went on . " I believe in open covenants , " one of Mr. Dulles ' aides remarked irritably during one period of troublesome dealing on the reparations question , " hut I think they should be secretly arrived at . " He was expressing more pique than conviction , because the publicity created additional work . Those who took part in the treaty-making concede that despite such irritations , the open way gives peace a broader , sounder base . The Japanese Peace Treaty was written the open way . It can , in fact , be fairly described as the first approach to achievement of Woodrow Wilson 's ideal of " open covenants , openly arrived at , " in a sense much broader than that of the physical signing before the millions of common citizens who watched their television sets .                     