@@431550

How Ethical Are These Lawyers ? @# IN A Toledo , Ohio , court a young lawyer just admitted to the bar was appointed to defend a penniless man charged with burglary . The evidence was clear . At the trial a police officer testified that he had chased a man from a clothing store at 2 a.m. and arrested him . Another officer swore that the prisoner arrived at the precinct station wearing new clothes with tags from the store still attached , and an assortment of jewelry in the pockets . The merchant identified the clothing and jewelry as his stolen property , and stated that worn-out clothes of a size to fit the arrested man had been found on the counter . No defense was possible . Everyone in the courtroom knew that the defendant was guilty . But no one had taken the important step of getting it into the record that this was the arrested man . Realizing this omission , the young defending attorney could have held his peace and allowed the jury to convict ? and thus " saved " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stenographic record showing the technical absence of proper identification , would be forced to set aside the conviction . Instead , the young lawyer pointed out the omission . Whereupon the startled prosecutor quickly recalled the first policeman to identify this defendant as the man he had arrested , the jury declared him guilty , and the conviction stood . An older lawyer , with a reputation for both success and probity ,  | later took the young practitioner to task . He suggested that perhaps this newcomer had not realized that by keeping quiet he could have secured an invalid conviction and saved his client from punishment . " I realized it , " the young lawyer admitted . " But I believe that if the state actually has evidence of guilt , it should be privileged to show it . " " You mean you knowingly allowed a valid conviction when you could have prevented it ? " asked the elder . " You should be disbarred for dereliction of duty to your client ! " Such is the dominant philosophy of many respected and successful lawyers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be avoided if possible , side-stepped if it can not be concealed . Through adroit manipulation of every technicality , a lawyer must try to save even a guilty client from punishment . This philosophy each year allows countless dangerous men to strut out of court and their lawyers to congratulate themselves . Yet these lawyers are officers of the court , and as such have sworn to be " true to the court " and to attend to the business of their clients " with prudence , honesty and skill . " Note the word " honesty . " The easy conscience that accepts as honest the various legalistic devices which can be used to a client 's advantage has a highly practical value . It means plentiful fees for lawyers most skilled in defeating deserved conviction . These attorneys are in demand not only among criminals but among innocent persons wrongfully accused . For an innocent defendant naturally feels safer in the hands of a lawyer able to protect even the guilty . Indeed , an attorney competent to save only the innocent might soon have no clients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to save every client is well established . When defending Queen Caroline against an adultery charge in 182o , British barrister Henry Peter Brougham ( later to become Lord Chancellor ) issued a statement that is still quoted by lawyers and teachers of law . Said Lord Brougham : " An advocate , by the sacred duty he owes his client , knows in the discharge of that office but one person in the world ? that client and none other . He must go on , reckless of consequences , if his fate it should unhappily be to involve his country in confusion for his client 's protection . " Members of the bar all subscribe to a code of ethics that requires a lawyer 's " entire devotion to the interests of his client , warm zeal in the maintenance and defense of his rights , and the utmost of his learning and ability . " But just where do the client 's rights end when they conflict with the public 's rights ? And how far should a lawyer stretch his " learning and ability " ? The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the rules of justice if it is possible and profitable to evade them . He does n't hesitate to try to frighten off witnesses ( either before or during court ac- tion ) , to bribe jurors or to resort to perjury . After the income-tax-evasion trial of Chicago hoodlum Al Capone , Federal Judge James H. Wilkerson called much of the defense testimony " shocking perjury " ? perjury of which defense counsel , after all their conferences with members of the Capone " syndicate , " should have been aware . And when Illinois sought to strengthen its laws against perjury , a battery of Chicago 's most successful criminal lawyers fought the proposal vigorously . According to Virgil W. Peterson , operating director of the Chicago Crime Commission , they protested : " Do you want to prevent a defendant from bringing in his relatives and friends to lie a little for him ? How ridiculous ! There is always perjury in a criminal case ! " If defense counsel anticipates being unable to prevent truth damaging to his client from being given on the stand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be to influence the jury to disbelieve or disregard it . If he can not hope for acquittal , he can try at least for disagreement , the theory goes , and to that end , relying on deep-seated prejudices , he may be captious in his selection of jurors . He would prefer them , of course , to be prejudiced in favor of his client ; next best , prejudiced against the police or the law ; as a last resort , prejudiced against each other . This philosophy is written in law textbooks and is frequently followed in practice . At an institute conducted by an important law school for students and practitioners , an expert who lectured on the art of cross-examination began his talk with the flat pronouncement : " It is the function of the cross-examiner to destroy the witness 's testimony if possible . " Then he added , with emphasis , " even though it has been the truth . " If counsel can not exclude a true but damaging statement , he may then seek to wipe it from the jurors ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a law school , began with this thesis : " To be financially successful the practicing lawyer must be fundamentally a cad , with ability to assume the manners of a gentleman when necessary . " He then quoted from a widely used law textbook by the late Francis L. Wellman , which teaches little about convicting the guilty but many ways for a skilled defense lawyer to avoid conviction of a guilty client . " The entire effect of an adverse witness , " this textbook advises , " can sometimes be destroyed by a pleas- . ant little passage in which the witness is held up to ridicule before the jury , and all that he has said disappears in the laugh that accompanies him from the witness stand . " Court records are full of " pleasant little passages " wherein defense counsel have attempted to discredit honest witnesses and to destroy their reputations for intelligence and integrity . In the recent Midwest trial of a man charged with stabbing another ,  | the arresting officer , an honorable and experienced state trooper , took the stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trooper 's testimony until he trapped the officer into saying , " When I arrested the defendant , he was very drunk . " Whereupon the attorney , with a great show of indignation , cried out an objection . How was this witness qualified to make so rash a charge ? What scientific tests had he performed as basis for this statement ? Within minutes , by rapid-fire attack , by innuendo and sly implications , the lawyer painted for the jury a picture of a swaggering bully of a policeman , careless with the truth , taking advantage of an innocent man . When a prosecutor abuses a witness or oversteps the bounds of strict legal propriety , the defense is quick to use the incident as reason for an appeal to a higher court . But if a defense lawyer does the same thing , to secure acquittal , there is no appeal . Once cleared , no defendant may be retried , no matter how flagrant his attorney 's actions . So , many defending counsel do everything short of punishable contempt to provoke a prosecutor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an appellate court might call " erroneous influence " on a jury . In the mass trial of Communist leaders heard in New York before Judge Harold R. Medina in 1949 , the 11 defendants brawled noisily and their attorneys carried on an endless war of nerves against the judge in the hope of provoking him into an unwise statement or act . Medina stood his ground despite violent outbursts and vicious tactics which the Supreme Court later said were " not such as merely to offend personal sensitivities of the judge but . . . prejudiced the expeditious , orderly and dispassionate conduct of the trial . " Medina 's self-control was such that , despite hourly provocation , he kept the lawyers from freeing their guilty clients on trumpedup technicalities . So it is not the law , designed to protect the innocent and to punish the guilty , that allows wicked men to go free . It is the advantage some lawyers take of the law to save men from deserved conviction . Well , you may ask , why not ? If innocence is not harmed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyers ' wits ? For two reasons . Because justice can never be a " game . " And because escape of the guilty destroys our whole theory of crime prevention . If society 's belief that punishment for crime is a deterrent is sound , then punishment must be as sure and quick as possible . The criminal lawyer , therefore , as a protector of the guilty at the expense of truth , must accept a large part of the blame for prevailing lawlessness and the multibillion-dollar annual cost of crime . By misusing those safeguards which were written into the law to protect the innocent , he defeats the true purpose and intent of the law .                     