@@487250

f VA/IR sind ein unpolitisches Volk " ? " we are a non- political people " ? once wrote Prince Billow . No one can study the Germany of today and of the last five years without concurring in the Prince 's verdict . The ineptness which permitted the maneuvering of Germany into a position of moral turpitude in 1914 did not cease with the birth of the German republic . The years that have passed , years of physical suffering and mental anguish such as only the Russians can understand and appreciate , have produced no dominant German statesmen or statesman , have brought forward no moral or spiritual or political leader , have consolidated public opinion not at all . On the contrary , with every month 's slipping down into economic chaos and intellectual despair , the cleavages have become more marked , the differences more varied and more bitter . Under relentless and vindictive pressure from outside , it has not only been impossible to close ranks , but some of the worst passions and the worst elements in the community have come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ door but in the front hall , parlor , and kitchen and well on his way upstairs , it is impossible to present a united German front . It is easy to sing , as the crowd still does , " Deutschland fiber Alles , " but to make the necessary sacrifices so that the enemy shall meet a Germany compact , indivisible , and unshakable  --  that appears impossible . Once more we see , as in so many other countries , the exploding of the old theory that each grave national crisis produces its master spirit , its Lincoln or its Cromwell , divinely prepared to deal with the hour . Germany is but one of many countries in which enlightened and able leadership is lacking . Now I am well aware how urgent are the extenuating circumstances . Every act of the Allies since the war has been as if deliberately planned to hamstring , and then to destroy , the newly born democratic movement in Germany , the freeing of which from its autocratic mastership Woodrow Wilson declared to be one of our purposes in entering the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-control when you are suddenly called upon to take over a nation prostrate in the ruins of its autocratic government and to construct an entirely new system of national management under fire . You can not so readily show what possibilities of successful self-government lie within you - when you are hampered at every turn , when at least three-quarters of your most valuable assets in the way of national resources are stolen from you , when you are beset by dozens of foreign commissions , when you get nearly one hundred orders in one week as to how you , representing a presumably free and independent government in possession of full sovereignty , shall conduct your business . Nor is your situation improved by the presence of thousands upon thousands of foreign troops upon your soil , representing a clear-cut political purpose to dismember your country , to take from it additional stretches of territory . If under these circumstances you can retain any authority over your people , that is perhaps a noteworthy achievement . Then , we ought surely to judge leniently the conduct of a people who for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a mental torture of the worst kind ; whoduring at least four , if not five , of those years have daily faced the specter of famine ; who are now reduced by foreign exactions and cruelties and by their mismanagement of their own currency to a point where their mental horizon is limited entirely by the questions where can they get food and how can they pay for it . Few people in modern times have been called upon to undergo such a trial by fire . Yet , when every allowance is made , I must confess to bitter disappointment that the political incapacity of the German people continues and continues so gravely to their own hurt . I can not find it easy to overlook or forgive the continuous factional disputes and intrigues in the Reichstag . It is not easy to forgive the placing in the Cuno cabinet of a totally inefficient finance minister ( to speak politely of him ) by the Centrum , and his retention there as the price of that party 's support of the coalition when the Reich was in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differences such as those which exist between Prussia and Bavaria . One can even understand in a way the fanatical , semi-religious devotion to country of the Bavarian militarists , monarchists , and nationalists , with the resultant belief that at this juncture there is no other method to save the fatherland except to impose their will upon the rest of Germany . But one can not forgive the playing of petty party politics while the national house is burning , nor the insistence upon exploiting at this time the differing sectional points of view ; one does feel that in such an emergency Communist , monarchist , Socialist , Bavarian , and the ultra-reactionary of every stripe ought to suspend their differendes , postpone their quarrels , turn to in order to keep afloat their sinking ship , and uphold the hands of the constituted authority in the extraordinarily difficult negotiations with the false and lying Gallic enemy . What if those constituted authorities are not faithful to their tasks ? Why , then the united pressure of the masses could and should make itself felt ; at worst , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ postponed . As for the ministries that have existed in Germany since the revolution of 1918 , have they been true to themselves , their people , and their obligations ? I have the strongest feeling that they have not . Too often there has been a lack of straightforwardness , and that still exists . When Stresemann sent his ultimatum to Bavaria at the end of October he suppressed the most important part of it from his own people . With disgusting indirection he simultaneously struck at the Bavarians over the heads of the Saxons , pulling down the government of the latter because he had had " seventeen complaints of the ill-treatment of Saxon industrialists by Communist workers . " Stresemann did these things for expediency 's sake and for tactical reasons . Suppression of truth is a dangerous game to play in most countries , and one may be certain that if the German people discover how the actual facts have been withheld from them those guilty will have to pay a heavy price . But perhaps the clearest instance of the way the successive German governments have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one remembers the solemn promises given in 1919 that immediate steps would be taken to socialize the great industries . " Die Sozialisierung ist dal " read great posters on all the blank walls and public buildings when I reached Berlin during the Spartacist uprising in March of that year . It was held to be the most potent and magic formula with which to calm the revolters . But nothing whatever has since been done . The mines were to be the first to be nationalized ; they are still in private hands . Now , nationalization may or may not be a wise policy , but that the majority of the German people wanted it in 1919 can hardly be doubted . It was beyond dispute solemnly promised to them . What wonder if the authority of the government has failed with the masses ? It has perhaps been a fortunate thing for the successive chancellors that the German people have become hourly more and more concerned about their daily bread and less and less able to concentrate upon their politics and to compare promise with performance . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government , the instances of that are legion . I repeatedly asked in Berlin why the simple device of appointing an advisory finance commission of foreigners to cooperate with the German Government and to advise it in the matter of payments to the Allied governments was not adopted . Supposing a commission comprising Sir George Paish , John Maynard Keynes , Frank A. Vanderlip , Paul Warburg , a Swiss , a Dutch , and a Scandinavian financier had been appointed , and the German Government had laid all its cards on the table and been guided by the commission 's advice , what a safeguard against foreign insinuation and misrepresentation that would have constituted ! What a means with which to meet the demands of the Reparation Commission ! The word and opinion of such men must have been accepted by the financial and commercial world as conclusive . Yet no one in Berlin appears ever to have thought of such a simple stratagem . If such a commission had certified to the honorable efforts of the Germans to pay , approved the amounts of their payments and their capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dared to dispute the decisions . Instead , the Germans blundered on , producing abroad the widespread belief that they were seeking to avoid their just debts , amazing their friends when they gave Poincare the opportunity to enter the Ruhr because of inexcusable minor defaults , and never making one clear-cut reparations offer and sticking to it through thick and thin . Such a body of experts would moreover have aided in the handling of the German currency situation . The French have reason to say that part of the responsibility for the German financial collapse rests on Berlin because of its failure to deal properly and promptly with the currency problem . In another article I have pointed out how victory through passive resistance was thrown away because of the failure to plan for its adequate financing  --  another case where , whether through stupidity or shortsightedness or otherwise , the Germans were misled by those in authority . There persists a general suspicion that in some of the helter-skelter stabilizing efforts to peg the mark at this or the other figure the insiders enriched themselves . Indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political parties have financed themselves by gambling in exchange . It is impossible to get a satisfactory answer to the question why , if it was a good thing to establish a new and sound currency on November 1 last , it would not have been a good thing to do it on February 1 last . Finally , as to the general financial situation , there is today still no adequategovernmental appreciation of its desperate character or even of the exact nature of the disease . What political incapacity that spells when Germany is dying from this disease , induced and superinduced by outside pressure and malignance ! There are competent experts in Germany like Dr. R. R. Kuczynski ; they do not appear to be consulted . It is not too late now to call in foreign experts , but the Berlin vision is probably still not broad enough for that . I do not believe for one instant that Berlin has been deliberately dishonest as to reparations , or in the debasement of its currency ; but one must admit that their political ineptness has on occasion presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one does not feel that one is entirely unjust in believing that a resolute government would have grappled with the disorderly elements , the profiteers , the gamblers in the necessities of life , who inevitably rise to the top when there is such a complete stirring up of all the forces that constitute national life . There are base men in every country , tax evaders , men who cheat their government and enrich themselves cold-bloodedly at the expense of the unfortunate among their fellow-countrymen . But a government filled with righteous determination to combat the wrong and having some political flair would have found means of checking the excesses which Germany has witnessed along these lines  --  happenings that have given rise to the suspicion abroad that the Government itself has connived at a flight of capital out of the country to avoid the payment of just debts . This impression has been widely circulated by the Allies , but it is not warranted by the facts , especially when it is recalled that the German Government has repeatedly and in vain called upon the Allies and the neutral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Germans in those institutions and countries so that it might tax them . Again , there are the Gernian industrialists . Today they constitute a coordinate government within the German empire . Instead of aiding Berlin to grapple with them , France has done everything it could to exalt the industrialists at the expense of Berlin by dealing directly with them , which has of course destroyed Berlin 's authority over them and has encouraged them to make use of the distress of their country and the approaching starvation of the masses of their workmen , to attempt to do away with the eight-hour day and otherwise to improve their position as against that of their employees who have nothing left but to submit . During the war , according to report , these large industries were practically taken over by the Government ; there certainly seems no reason why in this even greater national emergency a similar policy could not have been pursued . The fact , I fear , is that the Cuno and Stresemann governments have been governments by and for business men rather than for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sinking heart over its political incapacity . Any people plunged into democracy so suddenly would have had reason to ask for indulgence even had there been no foreign complications . Germany was particularly handicapped . It had a huge defeated army of 6,000,000 men to demobilize while changing from monarchy to republic . It has clearly had to pay for its whole autocratic tradition and policies under which men were often excluded from administrative careers if they did not belong to certain charmed circles . It has had to pay for the whole Bismarckian policy of stifling liberalism and punishing socialists for their opinions  --  did he not say that he would " squeeze them against the wall until they squeaked " ? It is suffering now because of generations of autocracy whose whole tendency was to make men leave everything which has to do with government and administration to the bureaucracy and thus to deprive themselves of experience in the affairs of state . Yet when all is said and done , the disappointment is there that the record of the last five years is what it is ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , so certain of their powers and their ' mission in the world , have made such a poor showing ; that they have not even dealt adequately with their own war criminals ; that they are still without the insight to understand the psychology and the points of view of other peoples ; that they are not even able to convince the world of their own honesty of purpose ; that they are without spiritual unity and concord ; that they are cracking under pressure , albeit a wicked pressure , diabolically planned not only to destroy their country but also to destroy their reputation for integrity and their character by compelling them at the pistol 's point to agree to do the impossible . What does one see before Germany ? Well , if any man of ordinarily humane and Christian instincts should let his mind dwell on what may happen in the next few months if England and America continue to flinch and to fail , he would . , not be able to sleep o ' nights  --  that is if he had seen the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most terrible catastrophes in the history of mankind is under way . What if that could be staved off ? Well , even if the French could overnight be remanded to sanity , charity , and ordinary human decency , the Germans would still have before them the Slough of Despond . They will , I fear , have to go down far in suffering , misery , and disaster . It looks now as if they would have to take their dose of a dictatorship of the right and a dictatorship of the proletariat . It looks as if there must needs be years of convulsion , disorder , and civil strife before the new birth comes  --  a new birth which could have been brought about so easily had the good intentions and the financial ability of the Germans in 1919 been met by Christian fellowship and good-will on the part of the Allies . The responsibility for the deaths of millions of Europeans rests in large measure with the rulers of Austria and Germany in 1914 . The responsibility in this hour for the impending death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and children will rest in first line upon the French . Upon their heads will be the blood of the innocent . For that ' blood they will yet pay a terrible price unless all history is a lie .                     