@@494950

provide the best available measure of what , from the US standpoint , the conference did and did not accomplish . Kissinger said the President would propose that ministers " responsible for economic policy meet periodically to follow up on ? policy directions set at the summit . " He said the US would ask the conferees to pledge their governments to complete pending renego ? tiation of international trade terms along free trade lines by 1077 . He said the President would " propose that we reaffirm our common determination to avoid new harriers to trade as well as actions which provoke countries to erect them . " And : " The United States will urge the summit to recommit the industrial democra ? cies to an even more forceful pursuit of the fundamen ? tal long-term goal of depriving the oil cartel of the power to set the oil price unilaterally . " Finally the President would argue that under any revised interna ? tional monetary system-Each country should be free to choose the exchange rate regime that best suits it , provided it respects international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? tions. - The grandiloquent " Declaration of Rambouillet " that followed the conference was mostly a rhetorical assertion of agreement upon goals rather than upon measures to accomplish the goals . Even so , it provided some indications of how far the US got with its specific proposals . The conferees agreed to support completion of international renegotiation of trade terms by 1077 . They deplored protectionist measures by which countries " try to solve ; - their problems at the expense of others " and simultaneously accepted Prime Minister Wilson 's notice to the other five governments that Britain soon will impose import quotas in order to protect industries that can not compete in their home markets . President Ford and his delegation , conf run t-Mg strong pressures to take equivalent protective measures , were in no position to object very strenuous ? ly to the British course . Far from committing them ? selves to a joint attack upon the arbitrary pricing powers of the OPEC oil cartel , the other five conferees forced the US to settle for the feeble advocacy of a harmonious and steady development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a controlled currency float rather than the fixed rates first advocated by France and the totally free float preferred by the US is subject to IMF approval and in anv case was concluded before the Rambouillet conference opened . The other conferees merely affirmed what the US and France had already agreed upon . The majority rejected the Kissinger-Ford propo ? sal that the conference be institutionalized and made a permanent instrument of cooperation by having the member governments ' economic ministers meet peri ? odically to review the steps recommended at Rambouil ? let and to consider what other measures should be adopted to forward recovery in the sick industrial world . It all added up to a poor score for the US but the outcome was no worse and perhaps a bit better than the President expected . The 30th UN General Assembly reached its climax November - 10 by adopting a resolution in which it " Determines that Zionism is a form of racism and racial discrimination . " This is a lie , as US Ambassador Daniel Moynihan declared in a speech that departed from the normal niceties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by which " the abomination of anti-Semitism has been given the appearance of in ternation Anthony Astrachan is a free-lance writer who has covered four UN General Assembly sessions. al sanction. - Moynihan 's judgment , applauded by an unusually broad segment of the American public , was a moral one . On the practical level of politics and diplomacy , the Jews of the world and the state of Israel will survive , as Israeli Ambassador Chaim Herzog predicted in the Assembly debate . Indeed the actual votes on the resolution gave Israel more diplomatic support and the West more unity , even while losing , than they have enjoyed here for years . More likely to be hurt are the United Nations and the countries that voted for the resolution ? the First of 12 several paradoxes produced by the Zionism episode . The second was that passage of the resolution embodied the worst kind of UN conflict ? in a year that otherwise has seen a revival of cooperation and an attempt to avoid confrontation . The third is that Moynihan 's style of confrontation , which appeals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Western position , may actually have lost the West votes on the issue . The UN has already been hurt by the Assembly 's compulsion to demonstrate once again its irrelevance to serious international business like making peace in the Middle East . It will be hurt further as Western states ignore the UN 's projected " decade against discrimina ? tion , " aimed primarily at South Africa , with which the Zionism resolution was packaged . And the US Con ? congress may cut the appropriations necessary for the UN 's survival ? though the first week of congressional reactions makes that seem improbable . The countries that voted for the resolution will be hurt on one level because they have reduced the already limited uses of an imperfect diplomatic tool that is more valuable to them than to the great powers ? the General Assembly . They may be hurt on deeper levels if the United States and Europe take economic measures to punish them . But as Henry Kissinger said after reminding them that such votes will have an impact on bilateral relation ? ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have long ? term obligations and that we will not be driven by the emotions of the day . " Kissinger was acknowledging the paradox that the Zionism vote took place in a year when economic need had led the nations of the world to renew the delicate process of international cooperation after the flow of confrontations of 1974 . The poorer countries , known in different constellations as the developing countries , the Third World , and ( without much justification ) the non-aligned group , want desperately to reconstruct the world economic order . They feel the present system prevents them from developing as they want by subjecting their trade and natural resources to control by the rich countries . They resent the fact hat countries with 70 percent of the world 's population have only 30 percent of the world 's income . Last year their resentment produced a special session of the Assembly on the world economy that proved sterile , and a regular session in which determination to insult the rich produced an equally sterile set of unenforce ? able actions on the Middle East , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided to try to reestablish a dialogue ? and the developed countries met them half way , until the Zionism resolution broke the pattern . The effort to avoid confrontation began with Third World decisions not to seek the expulsion of Israel from the UN . In March the coordinating bureau of the conference of nonaligned countries discussed expulsion The New Republic as a possibility . In July the foreign ministers of 40 Islamic countries demanded expulsion . The US made plain that it would withdraw its presence and its money from the UN if Israel were expelled . At the same time the poor poor , or resourceless , countries began to voice resentment of their domination by the rich poor ; the Arab oil producers have given almost no money to compensate the poor poor for damage done by the oil price rises . The result : at the end of July , an Organiza ? tion of African Unity summit meeting in Kampala rejected a resolution urging suspension until Israel withdrew from occupied Arab lands . The O.AU did adopt a resolution saying that the " racist regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the racist regimes of Rhodesia and South Africa , which was cited as one of the precedents for the Assembly resolution on Zionism , but at the time that seemed like a routine , ignorable condemnation of Israel . The conference of nonaligned nations at Lima in August also rejected a call for the expulsion of Israel . It did call for new pressures on Israel in terms that were cited in the Zionism resolution , but significantly chose words that were more moderate than those of the 1974 Assembly resolutions on Palestine . The second major effort at avoiding confrontation was a special session of the Assembly on economic matters , which preceded the regular session in September . - The United States in effect rejoined UN economic discussions after 10 years ' absence , " as a diplomat from another Western country put it . Moynihan read an hour-and-15-minute speech for Kissinger on the opening day that suggested that the United States was offering serious proposals to deal with serious Third World complaints ? among them the creation of an international financing agency that would lend poor countries $2.5 billion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ com ? modity exports fluctuates . Third World delegates reacted with surprised pleasure and moderated much of their own rhetoric . Some of them stopped talking about principles ( which often meant demanding a Western confession of guilt for the plight of the poor ) , picked up Western hints and concentrated on specific problems and proposals . Diplomats and journalists spoke of a " real dialogue " that contrasted with last year 's fruitless exchange of polemics . Underlying this dialogue was sharper discussion between the moderates and the hard-liners among the non-aligned . The hard-liners , led by Algeria , Iran and Mexico , lost on most issues to the moderates , among whom were such non-clients of the West as Tanzania and Yugoslavia . The hard-liners ' pressure stiffened the Western position , however , keeping the session going two days beyond schedule and forcing a meeting to run past 3 am in order to achieve the resolution adopted unanimously eight hours later ? the same day the regular session began . The resolution dealt with measures in international trade , the transfer of resources and international monetary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food and agriculture , cooperation among developing countries , and restructuring the economic and social sectors of the UN system . Some of the measures were Kissinger 's proposals ; others did not evoke Western enthusiasm , like buffer stocks of commodities financed by the rich and indexing of raw materials prices to the ( inflating ) prices of manufac ? tured goods . There was no doubt at the end that confrontation had been avoided , but Western and Third World diplomats agreed that if the rich countries do not follow through on their promises , explicit or implied , the moderates among the nonaligned will feel badly burned and confrontation will be resumed between the poor and the rich with an intensity that will bode ill for world peace . Some Third World moderates voiced fears that Kissinger and Moynihan had intended to put one over on them and had succeeded , even as they expressed pleasure at the suspension of confrontation . Three other , lesser decisions might serve as symbols that the regular session , like the special session , was pursuing cooperation and dialogue rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a political resolution on Southern Rhodesia that Britain was able to support for the first time in years . The silliest was the political committee 's adoption of two contradictory resolutions on Korea , one with 59 votes and the other with 51 out of 142 members . It was ridiculous even to the Assembly 's most ardent supporters , but at least it left both sides looking equally ridiculous rather than making one a clear winner and the other a clear loser . The most dubious of the three symbols was the August decision of the 24-member Decolonization Committee to postpone until next year ( meaning indefinitely ) a Cuban resolution affirming " the inalien ? able right of the people of Puerto Rico to self-determination and independence . " The vote to defer could have been Third World consideration for US feelings or a realistic concession to US arm-twisting , which was no secret . But Moynihan escalated the level of confrontation by acknowledging on network televi ? sion that the United States had warned committee members that it would consider a vote for the resolution " an unfriendly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We are not about to be lectured by police states on the processes of electoral democracy , " the ambassador said on " Meet the Press . " " They are talking about our internal affairs . . . They are threatening to start an insurrection in this country . That we regard as an unfriendly act and we told them so and for the first time we beat them ? and a good thing , too , we think . " This was the language of confrontation . it may or may not have been appropriate for the Puerto Rican question ; it certainly was for Moynihan 's speech after the Zionism vote . But many diplomats , including some Americans , wonder if Moynihan 's style of confront a ? tion always pays off at the United Nations ; they raise questions in particular about the diplomacy leading up to the Zionism vote . Of course , Moynihan did not create the confront a ? tion on Zionism . The tiny African nation of Burundi , whose government committed genocide against its own Hutu people introduced a resolution vaguely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the United States opposed it routinely . This year , the idea had a double appeal . To the Arabs it was a substitute for the expulsion of Israel , which they had had to abandon for the time being , but they had not agreed on the terms of a resolution , the right parliamentary tactics or the results they would settle for . To some nations it was a good way to turn the Assembly away from cooperation and return it to its alternative function as an arena for conflict . The Palestine Liberation Organization wanted to do both ? to revive the spirit of confrontation that gave Yassir Arafat the honors of a head of state last year , and to show the intensity of their determination to attack Israel with words as well as arms no matter what the consequences . ( One consequence they surely desired would be the embarrassment of the peacemaking efforts of Kissinger and Egyptian President Anwar Sada t . ) The PLO , which is only an observer here , found five nations to preempt the more hesitant Arabs and precipitate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and many nonaligned moderates who now feel they should have been prepared for what appeared but were not . The five sponsored amend ? ments to one of the resolutions on the decade for action to combat racism and racial discrimination , amend ? ments that labeled Zionism an evil akin to South African apartheid . The sponsors were Cuba , whose ambassador admits that he seeks confrontations on " progressive " causes ; Democratic Yeman , Libya and Syria , three of the hardest-line Arab states ; and Somalia . The amendments were introduced in the Assembly 's third committee , the ironically named social , humani ? tarian and cultural committee , on October 1 . That was the day Idi Amin appeared in the House of Peace in his field marshal 's uniform , called for the extinction of Israel as a state , " and appealed to Americans to " rid their society of the Zionists . " He made those remarks as president of Uganda . They contrasted with what he said as president of the OAU . But Moynihan , speaking to the AFL-CIO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denounce Amin as a " racist murderer , " a fair if undiplomatic description . He said that it was no accident that a racist murderer was head of the OAU , which hardly squared with his acknowledgement a moment later that the OAU meeting in Kampala had broken " the gathering force of the movement to suspend Israel " from the Assembly . He also suggested that Israel 's antagonists were all despotisms seeking to destroy Israel because it was a democracy . Moynihan 's comments caused an uproar even among Africans who had been embarrassed by Amin . Perhaps he came on so strong because he expected the third committee to vote on the Zionism resolution that day or the next . But the Italian ambassador , Piero Vinci , speaking the same day for the nine European Common Market members with no knowledge of what Moynihan would say in San Francisco , warned that the Nine would not support the decade against discrimina ? tion if the Zionism resolution were part of it . The Europeans and Ghana ( anxious to secure maximum attendance at a world conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decade ) succeeded in putting off the vote for two weeks . Negotiations produced a new version , a separate resolution with no explicit link of Zionism to the decade against discrimination although it was one of five resolutions in the committee report on the decade . This was the resolution ultimately adopted . It had 26 sponsors , all but six of them Arab . The changes were hardly enough to satisfy the West , and confrontation was assured . On October 17 , a motion to defer the resolution until next year failed , 68 against , 45 for and 16 abstentions . The committee then adopted the resolution , 70 to 29 , with 32 abstentions . Moynihan then embarked on a series of pronounce ? ments , calling the resolution " obscene , " saying that only the countries that had voted against it were " decent , " charging ( in the traditional guise of " a high official " ) that Chile had sold its vote in exchange for Arab support on a resolution charging Chile with violating human rights , and otherwise taking a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yes " to abstention in the plenary . ) President Ford and Kissinger echoed him in measurably milder terms . The combination of Moynihan 's San Francisco speech and his post-committee comments cost the West between three and 10 votes on the Zionism resolution , according to African and European diplomats and at least one American . The delegate of Mauritius , in his speech in the plenary , objected to the charge of " obscenity " and complained of American pressures to change his position . He resisted the pressure by voting as he had in committee , against the proposal to defer the resolution until next year and abstaining on the resolution itself . Even so , other observers are skeptical that Moynihan 's remarks had such direct and simple consequences , and point out that 10 votes might not have been enough to ensure postponement of the Zionist resolution ? the only form of victory the West could achieve on the issue . ( A 70-vote swing from " no " to " yes " would have changed the result , but 10 votes from " no " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " yes " would not have . ) But it is noteworthy that Kissinger , whose contempt for the United Nations is huge , said again last week that hewould have used " more restrained " language on Amin than Moynihan did and that he specifically would not have linked any criticism to the OAU . While Moynihan was speaking in such sharp terms , the United States was doing very little arm-twisting in the world 's capitals . American officials claim this was deliberate , that better results were expected from leaving the lobbying to the Nine and the Scandinavians , who felt very strongly on the issue and had more leverage in Asia and Africa . It is also true , however , that Washington ordered its embassies abroad to make major efforts to affect votes on the Korean question , a matter of vast unimportance outside the Korean peninsula , and asked for no serious representations about Zionism until after the vote on Korea October 29 ? far too late for maximum effect on the Zionism vote 12 days later . The discrepancy between the high level of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially when contrasted with the heavy action on Korea , may have persuaded some countries that the United States was not serious in trying to reverse the committee vote . The European lobbying on Zionism was vigorous , but started only after the committee vote ? not soon enough to overtake all the Arab diplomatic efforts , lubricated in many cases by Libyan oil money . Despite these diplomatic shortcomings , the Western lobbying produced some good results . The vote in the plenary on the motion to defer the question until next year lost , 55 to 67 with 15 abstentions . The West picked up 10 votes and the Arabs only one from the time of the committee vote . That was the important question so far as the West was concerned . On the resolution itself , which received the most media attention but was less important in terms of UN parliamentary tactics , the tally was 72-35 with 32 abstentions . In both cases , the vote against Israel was 30 to 40 below the usual automatic majority . The absence or abstention of non ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victory . Romania , the only Warsaw Pact country with diplomatic relations with Israel , was absent ? which was intended to show that the " whole matter was not even worth discussing , " a remaining source said privately . Japan , Mexico , Portugal and Spain all voted in Favor of deferral , showing their basic loyalties to the West on the key test . Then they hedged their bets ? Mexico and Portugal by voting in favor of the resolution itself , Japan by abstaining and Spain-by being absent . Mexico 's President Luis Echeverria hopes to succeed Kurt Waldheim as UN secretary general with Third World support . Portugal was presumably showing the left wing and non-aligned sympathies of her revolutionary government . Spain was caught between her loyalties to the West and her desire for good relations with the Arabs , already complicated by her settlement with Morocco and Mauritania over the future of the Spanish Sahara ? a settlement opposed by Algeria . Japan was showing her fear over being at the mercy of Arab oil producers . The speeches that day set an unusually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pudding of propaganda studded with candied trivia . Ambassador Herzog of Israel started by reminding the delegates that they were voting , fittingly , on the 37th anniver ? sary of the Kriqalnacht , the night the Nazis smashed the windows of all the Jewish stores in Germany and burned the synagogues to blaze the trail that led inexorably to Auschwitz . He discussed the Biblical meaning of Zion and the modern meaning of Zionism , the racism of Arab states , the function of the Jews as a testing agent of human decency , and finished with aflourish , saying that Israel would treat the resolution as no more than the piece of paper it was , tearing the text in his hands as he did so . Ambassador Abdallah al-Sayegh c1 Kuwait gave a scholarly rather than a vulgar statement of the Arab case . Ambassador Moynihan called a lie a lie , a rare occurrence at the United Nations , and discarded the usual diplomatic pretense of happy acceptance of an adverse vote : the United States , he said , " does not acknowledge , it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infamous act . " Even some Westerners who felt his rhetoric of confrontation had been unwise before the vote welcomed the catharsis of his speech afterward . The militant negativism of the Ford administration and the weary disenchantment of some prominent liberals rest in considerable part upon one of the most influential myths of the ' 70s : that government can not solve social problems by " throwing money " at them . This proposition , in turn , is supposed to be a generaliza ? tion out of the experience of the ' 60s when , it is said , Washington spent and experimented prodigally , and in the process did more harm than good . If this thesis were simply an article of faith for sectarian , free-market ideologues like Ford and Secre ? tary of the Treasury William Simon , it would not be particularly alarming . Such people believed in it long before the New Frontier and the Great Society ; for them what happened in the ' 60s was just one more example of a timeless truth . But when liberal governors like Jerry Brown in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very same theme , that is a more serious matter . If , as one devoutly wishes , a liberal Democrat wins the presidency in 1Q76 , he will be in the difficult position of having to lead a nation wracked with cycles of recession and inflation worse than any encountered in a generation . Under those circumstances , if the Democratic party and its President fall back upon the Michael Harrington , chairman of the Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee , wrote The Other America and is the author of the forthcoming The Twilight of Capitalism . wisdom of Herbert Hoover and wait for the nation 's troubles to work themselves out , on the grounds that government can do nothing , they will rightly be repudiated by the people . The party that since Roosevelt has claimed to be the agent of progressive change will have failed utterly . In saying this , 1 do not want to suggest for a moment that all that is necessary is to go back to Roosevelt 's principles ( or Kennedy 's , or Johnson 's ) rather than to Hoover 's . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solutions are often new problems in disguise . To the degree that federal programs did generate new problems while pretending to cope with old ones , these failures occurred not because Washington acted too radically or too prodigiously , but because it acted too timidly , following corporate priorities even as it spoke in populist rhetoric . To defend the liberal record against preposterous charges from the right ( including the new liberal right ) is not to say that it is immune to criticism from the Democratic left . On the contrary , if a Democratic President is inaugurated in January , 1977 , he ( 1 wish I could realistically write he or she ) is going to have to act forthrightly , which means that he will have to reject the big lie about the " b0s . But he is also going to have to go far beyond the New Deal , the Fair Deal and the Great Society . On November Q , 1972 , the day after his landslide victory , The Wa4rington Star published a historic inter ? view with Richard Nixon . Garnett @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              