@@432250

Americans want a fairer and simpler tax system , but when it comes to the particulars , many believe President Reagan 's reform plan misses the mark . That message came through unmistakably to key members of Congress as they toured their districts before settling back down to work on July 8 . Merchants , farmers , executives and factory workers ? nearly all expressed apprehension over how they would fare under the Reagan plan . While many are willing to make sacrifices , doubts persist about whether Congress and the President can agree on a plan that treats everyone fairly . That spells trouble for the House Ways and Means Committee , which expects to complete hearings on tax reform and draft a bill for consideration by the full House over the next few weeks . Already , members of the tax-writing panel are prime targets of complaints , not only from Washington lobbyists but also from local groups and individuals . To find out what the tax writers are hearing at the grass roots , US.News &; World Report correspondents joined four Ways and Means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 recess . Their reports " No One Agrees on Specifics " CONCORD , N.H. Testing the waters on tax reform in his district , Republican Representative Judd Gregg did not have to go far to find a critic . Just a stone 's throw from his office is the John Swenson Granite Company , employer of some 550 quarry workers and 3 craftsmen . Those jobs would be jeopardized by import competition , Swenson told Gregg , if Reagan 's plan to eliminate investment tax credits and depletion allowances is enacted . " It would n't be right not to have granite quarries in the Granite State , " conceded Gregg . That was just the beginning of a turbulent day of fielding complaints and assuaging fears . Loon Mountain developer Richard Barber warned that proposed new rules on real-estate investment would hurt northern New Hampshire , where many vacation homes are built . Henry Swan , president of Wagner Woodlands , complained about proposed changes in the tax treatment of timberlands . " We may end up seeing the forest stripped instead of managed , " he said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on workers , urged Gregg to push for higher corporate taxes . Barbara Stott of the New Hampshire Federation of Teachers warned that abolishing local-tax deductions would hurt teachers . " People are n't going to vote raises for teachers if they ca n't deduct their property taxes , " she said . Sighed Gregg at the end of the day : " Tax reform is a lot like the Middle East peace plan : Everyone is for it in concept , but no one can agree on the specifics . " " Be Careful About Tinkering " MEMPHIS From the nightspots of Beale Street to the historic Mississippi riverfront , a multimillion-dollar building boom is bringing new economic vitality and thousands of badly needed jobs to this proud Southern city . But local leaders worry that the boom will turn to bust if certain investment incentives are abolished . They want Representative Harold Ford , a Memphis Democrat , to do something . At a luncheon meeting during Ford 's latest trip home , business executives and local officials sounded the alarm over Reagan 's plan to abolish investment tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Memphis businesses . " If you do away with those , downtown redevelopment will come screeching to a halt , " warned Don Harris , whose firm renovates historic inner-city buildings . Byron Hogue , senior vice president of Memphis-headquartered Federal Express , said tax write-offs that Reagan wants to curb played a key role in the firm 's rapid growth over the past  | decade . " Just remember who pays the bills in this country and be careful about tinkering with the financial underpinnings of the corporate community , " Hogue warned . During the daylong tour , Ford was urged to fight proposed restrictions on deductions for charitable donations . William Kirwen , director of development at St. Jude 's Children 's Research Hospital , worried about losing contributions from small donors who provide nearly 75 percent of the hospital 's funds . " If the tax bill scares off those small donors , we 're in big trouble , " he said . Ford refuses to speculate on how the plan might end up . But with black unemployment at 11 percent in his district , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the way of what 's best for Memphis . " " Think of What 's Good for U.S. " OMAHA Harold Andersen , president of the Omaha World-Herald , delayed a Saturday golf outing so he could make the 7:30 a.m. chamber-of-commerce breakfast . The Nebraska Credit Union League took great pains to keep its members informed . And in suburban Ralston , many interrupted their chores to attend an unusual 2-hour town-hall gathering . The object of their attention : House Republican Hal Daub , whose membership on the tax-writing Mays and Means Committee has made him a figure of note in his Nebraska district . On a recent visit home , Daub was lobbied at every turn . At Mutual of Omaha , a major local employer , he stopped to present an American flag and have lunch in the employe cafeteria . Instead , company executives ushered him into the board room where , between bites of avocado salad , he was grilled about the tax-reform package . The Nebraska Credit Union League , fighting to save tax-free status for credit unions , clamored for Daub 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's dailies . The league delivered two reminders to Daub ? that he once was head of a credit union and that he benefited from a league contribution in the 1984 election . " We 've got a sign up of our national slogan , Victory on Tax Exempt Status . ' That translates to VOTES , ' a not too subtle reminder , " says Ed Nicholls , the league 's president . Individuals buttonholed Daub at a series of town-hall meetings , on the street and wherever they found him . " Why do n't they have a straight , acrossthe-board tax rate ? " asked Shirley Justice , a homemaker . " If it 's fair and you eliminate the loopholes , people are willing to go along with more taxes . " Others urged Daub to vote with the good of the country in mind . " Them days is gone forever when each individual congressman can be so tied up in his own little district , " said one elderly voter . " You have to think of what 's good for the United States of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SACRAMENTO Tax reform is just now catching on as a major issue among Democratic Representative Robert Matsui 's constituents ? a mix of civil servants , military personnel and retirees with a dash of high-tech and defense workers . On a busy July day , he found those most eager to discuss tax reform represented interest groups that would lose big if Reagan 's plan became law . The California Children 's Lobby , representing some 60 child-relief agencies funded largely by contributions , plans a mass mailing in August directed at Matsui and California 's senators to protest plans to restrict charitable deductions . " Homes for neglected children could be devastated without those deductions , " said spokeswoman Elizabeth Berger . The congressman also heard from local union leaders , who urged him to fight taxation of fringe benefits , and from life-insurance and real-estate-industry representatives , who fear the loss of favored tax treatment . " I think we need tax reform , but we want it to be constructive , " said Carl Amundson of the Sacramento Housing and Redevelopment Commission . Summing up the feeling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of economics at the University of California at Davis , says : " After seeing the reality , my initial enthusiasm for tax reform is fading . "                     