@@290250

When they arrived with their wives and children in Sutherland , Neb. , last month , neither Pham Tuong Do nor Tran Van Khang was surprised by the obvious differences between the tiny ( pop . 840 ) corn-country community and their native Can Tho , second largest city in South Viet Nam . But they were overwhelmed by their reception . Some Vietnamese refugees have been greeted in the U.S. with open hostility . Pham , Tran and their families were welcomed warmly , and with good reason . Sutherland , which is 20 miles from the nearest hospital , has been without a doctor since the town 's lone physician quit three years ago . When its citizens learned that Pham , 40 , and Tran , 37 , who are both physicians , were willing to settle there , they went out of their way to make them feel at home . <P> Easing Entry . Some townspeople reopened Sutherland 's long-shuttered 20-bed hospital and fixed it up as living quarters for the two families . Others donated furniture , kitchen utensils , television sets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best to make the Vietnamese feel at home . " We are lucky to be here , " Tran 's wife told her new neighbors . " No , " replied Mrs. Sandy Meissner , wife of Sutherland 's mayor , " we are lucky to have you . " <P> Pham and Tran are not the only Vietnamese refugees who are likely to find their entry into U.S. society eased by their professions . Some 300 of South Viet Nam 's 1,500 physicians , including the entire staff of the Saigon University School of Medicine , have turned up in California 's Camp Pendleton and other refugee centers . So have at least 60 dentists and a number of pharmacists and nurses . Many are getting a head start on resettlement because of their backgrounds . <P> A score of doctor-short communities in Nebraska besides Sutherland have recruited Vietnamese physicians , who are unpacking their bags in rural towns with names like Ponca , Weeping Water and Loup City . The Federal Government plans to settle some Vietnamese general practitioners on Indian reservations . American physicians have begun heeding an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as assistants . One Chapel Hill , N.C. , physician hired Saigon Pediatrician Nhieu Phan Van sight unseen . <P> The warmth of their welcome will certainly reassure Vietnamese doctors about their new homeland . But the refugees must still surmount some major obstacles before they can practice their profession . Like other foreign-trained physicians-who now constitute more than one-fifth of the 300,000 doctors practicing in the U.S.-the Vietnamese must pass the stiff requirements of the Educational Council for Foreign Medical Graduates ( ECFMG ) , which tests both their command of English and knowledge of clinical medicine . Last winter only 7,000 of the 19,000 foreign doctors who took the exams managed to pass . Those who get by the ECFMG must then take the Federation Licensure Examination ( FLEX ) , which is recognized by 48 states . In many cases , the doctors must also complete a 12-month hospital tour before meeting local licensing requirements .                     