@@486650

Whether the President should or would have intervened forcibly in the late coal strike if the Governor of Pennsylvania had refused all military protection to the operators ; whether ( the protection actually extended having proved inadequate ) , had nothing come of the President 's attempt at a peaceful settlement , he should or would have brought Federal troops upon the scene , or allowed the famine to drag on indefinitely  --  are questions which we shall not discuss . He chose , if we may use the expression , to exercise his good offices rather than his office . The mocha vivencli which has resulted is wholly salutary in itself ; but , so far as we know , this fact is due to the admiTable firmness of the operators , for we are quite in the dark as to the arguments or entreaties addressed to them by the Administration after the futile conference of October 3 . As in the Debs case , it has been made manifest that of some strikes national cognizance will be taken ; otherwise , that precedent has been neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assure " the people of our country , " in Mitchell 's sovereign phraseology , that the same situation may not confront them hereafter if those whom he calls in the same breath " our people " are so minded . Indeed , in his patronizing letter to the President of October 16 , Mitchell broadly intimates that no Federal force , however large , could have stamped out intimidation and persecution in the coal regions ; in his own words , " a hundred thousand troops could not have enabled the operators to start their mines . " This , though couched in the past tense , is intended to be prophetic and admonitory , with a confidence derived from experimental gauging of the time-fuse of Presidential resolution  --  five months at least . Taking leave of these considerations , we invite attention to the moral aspects of the late strike in relation to the widespread distress deliberately engendered by it . At no stage was the miners ' controversy with the operators alone , in the hope of constraining them by loss of profits to accede to redress of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no stage did the striking miners depend upon their savings in the waiting game with capital . Their expectation of success lay solely in the cornering of an article indispensable to the life and trade of the country , and in making the need of it so acutely felt as to rouse a popular clamor for surrender at any cost of principle . The actual hardship and suffering and panic apprehension produced in the Eastern section pa'ticularly were watched by the strike leaders as the mariner watches his glass . and with growing exultation , inwardly ; while their outward attitude towards these calculated effects of their machina tions was one of pure detachment and irresponsibility  --  of hypocritical regret that the operators could be so unfeeling . If we ask ourselves how any body of men professing to be Christians could , for no matter what grievance or injustice , make the misery of a community of millions  --  embracing the very poorest , and all innocent  --  a stepping-stone to the relief desired , we shall find one answer in the remoteness of the scene affected . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fathered upon Rousseau ? " Which one of us , if the pressing of a button would take the life of a rich mandarin in China , and make us his heir , would refrain ? " In other words , the victim of our action being but the shadow of a name , and we not going in his accusing presence and witnessing his death , we press the button , kill the mandarin , and pocket the inheritance  --  with a clean conscience . Mitchell was at no time confronted by hospital managers imploring coal to keep their patients alive ; by teachers beseeching him not to turn the children adrift and stop their training ; by the poor whose occupation was menaced or destroyed ; by the well-to-do confronted with conditions equivalent to poverty . In detail , such sights might have made some impression upon him , while in the mass and in the abstract they gave him only satisfaction . That way lay his advantage ; he knew it and counted upon it . The heathenishness of this is not peculiar to Mitchell or to other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its universal applicability , and we are all capable of killing our mandarin . As a nation , we are now sustaining practices in the Philippines which , from beginning to end , have no moral justification whatever . Both the ordinary warfare against the innocent inhabitants , and the hideous forms of torture to which the water-cure belongs , are going on  --  have been going on for four years  --  because our Filipino mandarin is eight thousand miles away and completely invisible from this continent . For this reason , and because we expect to enjoy the swag of national aggrandizement and world-importance and - commercial profits , the American conscience is easy . The latest handbook for American citizens , Dr. W. A. Mowry 's ' Territorial Growth of the United States , ' does not formally couple the acquisition of the Philippines with the manifestations of " the special favor of Divine Providence towards this country " from the Louisiana purchase to " the saving of Oregon from the grasp of England " ; but this must be an oversight , for it fully justifies that acquisition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign trade ; in other words , we want a much larger foreign market . Most certainly the possession and control of the Philip pine Islands will be of great advantage to American commerce . " Had Mitchell , to return to him , actually appeared at the asylum or hospital or school door , dismissing the inmates in pursuance of his design of coercing the operators , it is conceivable that he might have encountered some resistance , or at least reprobation of his inhumanity . It would have been entirely in keeping with strike methods if he had done this very thing vicariously , by ordering a boycott of every institution , public and private , using coal that had issued from the mines since the strike began . This will seem anything but a monstrous supposition to those who are familiar with the condition of the mechanic trades to-day , with the chronic uncertainty fostered by the walking delegate , the cessation of work when non-union labor enters into any part of the job , the fine exacted before the construction is allowed to proceed , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who thought themselves free , by men who pretend to be free . In all these invasions of liberty we must not seek for the agent ; we must recognize the Strike Power , a creature without soul , conscience or bowels of compassion , which consistently involves in its ruthless warfare both the unoffending and unseen members of society not a party to the immediate quarrel , and , by a forced tribute to its campaign chest , the equally unseen and unrelated unionized craftsmen who make up the federation of labor . To each his suffering . We may set it down to a lack of imagination that this iniquity is not regarded in its true light by the American people . But we must have patience . Time was when men needed tales like ' Uncle Tom 's Cabin ' or collections of horrors like its ' Key ' to understand the real nature of slavery  --  they could not deduce it from the bare fact of absolute control of one human being by another . And to-day the national imagination has only half grasped the essence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen measure after measure framed under its very eyes , with all the clash and compromise of greedy interests , all the secret interpolations  --  like the Dingley tariff rate on anthracite coal  --  all the juggle of conference committees . The finished product of such a grab-game we still dub science and wisdom and sanctity  --  till greed again orders an overhauling . THE REAL PROBLEM OF FUEL . Prof. Edward S. Morse , in his interesting book , ' Glimpses of China and Chinese Homes , ' describes the fuel of the poor class of Chinese . Charcoal is used only by the well-to-do ; for the poor , a pile of straw and twigs laboriously gathered from the roadside represents                     