@@487450

IN CHOOSING the phrase " world government " as the subject of this article I have been anxious to avoid at the outset those prejudices or affections which are associated with current terms , such as " League of Nations , " " Federal Union , " or " New Order , " and to approach from a general and less topical angle the eternal problem of how to secure that law rather than violence shall regulate the relations between states . It is important , I suggest , to realize that this problem is no new problem thrust upon the world by the failure of the settlement of 1919 or capable of being finally settled by some apochryphal solution sprung from the brain either of Herr Hitler or of Mr. Clarence Streit . It is a problem which has exercised the mind of man from the dawn of civilization and provoked many varying solutions , some of which have proved partially , locally , and temporarily successful , but none of which has proved universally or durably successful . In its essence the problem is no more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order and obedience which , in any group of civilized beings , regulate the relations between man and man . That same balance between rights andduties which in the long story of mankind has progressively regulated the relations between members of a family , members of a tribe , and members of a nation ought , it would seem , to be capable of almost unlimited expansion so as to embrace the nations of the world . It would appear at first sight that there can be little difference in kind between those processes which have rendered Great Britain or the United States comparatively ordered communities and those processes which could create an ordered community of natioris . The analogy between national fusion and international fusion might , indeed , be pressed farther . It is possible to trace in the several experiments which have been made in world government the same variations with which we are familiar in the evolution of national states . We have had the autocratic or tyrannical experiment , as under the Pax Romana or the European dominance of Napoleon . We have had the oligarchic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference and in the ensuing Concert of Europe . We have even had mystic or theocratic variations , as in the Greek amphictyonies or in the Holy Alliance . And we have had in the League of Nations what might be called the democratic experiment , under which the nations of the world were to cooperate on a basis of theoretical equality . None of these experiments has proved permanently successful , and one is tempted in moments of pessimism to believe that the mind and soul of men are too narrow to admit expansion beyond a certain limit or to pursue enlightened self-interest beyond a certain horizon of awareness . Are we to admit , therefore , that man is only capable of subduing anarchy within prescribed limits , and that whereas he can achieve national order over wide areas of the earth 's surface he is unable to achieve order as between nation-states ? I refuse to accept so negative an assumption . But I remain aware that for three thousand years man has tried and failed to achieve any form of international governance comparable in certainty to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not in any mood of despondency , but in a mood of scientific doubt . And I view with alarm the optimism of those who believe that past failures have been due to evident and remediable errors and that all will be feasible now that so many of us have seen the light . WHY HITLER 'S NEW ORDER WILL FAIL Let me begin by considering the nature of the checks and bars which have impeded what would seem to be a natural evolution from international anarchy toward international order . Why is it , in other words , that human beings are able to subordinate individual interests to common interests up to a certain point , but are unable to achieve that subordination beyond a certain point ? Let us assume for the purpose of argument that the most constant and reliable of human motives is the motive of self-interest , and that the standard of civilization reached by any given community is to be assessed by the number of members of that community who have acquired the moral habit of placing ultimate self-interest above immediate self-gratification , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the end dependent upon the welfare of the community in which he lives . In primitive societies this sublimation of selfishness does not extend beyond the family or tribe ; in more developed societies the inditidual is able to identify his own interest with the interests of his class or country . In some communities , such as the United States of America and the British Commonwealth of Nations , this identification of personal with group interest has been expanded over very wide areas . Yet there has always come a point at which divergences of race , religion , culture , and language have proved barriers to further expansion and at which the sense of identity is frustrated by the sense of difference . It may be contended that in the present century there has emerged a feeling of class solidarity which has been able to transcend the limits of the old nation-state . Far be it from me to dismiss these extra-national sympathies as fictional or transitory . On the contrary , they may prove the nucleus of a new stage in evolution . But it has yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and operative to withstand the conflict of sectional economic interests or to mitigate the instincts of national self-preservation . It must be recognized also that science has in recent years gone far to level the barriers which separate different nations and thereby to enlarge the area within which the ordinary citizen may be able to identify his personal or group interests with the interests of others . Hitherto , however , the effect of rapidity of communications  --  the effect , that is , of aviation , the wireless , and the cinema  --  has not been so much to create enhanced sympathy with other forms of civilization as to diminish the old intensive confidence in one 's own form of civilization . This may be all to the good in that it dilutes separation and , by diminishing extreme self-identification with a particular form of national consciousness , may prepare men 's minds for the reception of a wider form of identification and a wider form of consciousness . It is interesting , and perhaps useful , to observe that in the first three decades of the twentieth century this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formidable reaction in the shape of exaggerated and artificial differentiation . The very fact that the rapid improvement in physical and intellectual communication has led to some diminution in purely national identity has stimulated some countries to reaffirm and fortify that identity by appeals to national self-consciousness more emotional , and indeed more hysterical , than any which the world has ever seen before . The wave of nationalism which has overwhelmed Italy and Germany and gone so far to destroy the spiritual values of those two countries is not , as Herr Hitler and Signor Mussolini would assert , a movement of rebirth , but is little more than a stratagem to affirm and increase national power by exaggerating in the twentieth century ideas which are in their essence alien to the spirit of that century and as such anachronistic . The whole trend of human progress has been from social violence to social contract , and in reviving violence as a method of adjusting international conflict , the totalitarian states are adopting a method which , however successful it may seem at the moment , is contrary to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that when Herr Hitler proclaims his system of world order he is sincere in believing that under this system the nations of Europe , Africa , and Asia will attain to greater security and to a more even distribution of the world 's goods . Yet even at this early stage of the New European Order it is possible to detect certain political and economic fallacies which will render Hitler 's world government unworkable as a stable system . It is based primarily upon the theory of obedience rather than upon the theory of consent . Yet if Europe is to be reorganized upon the theory of obedience it will December 28 , 1940 not for long be possible to conceal the fact that obedience implies some authority whom one is expected to obey . That authority will not be Rome or Paris , but Berlin . However anxious Herr Hitler may be to convince subject peoples that they are equal partners in a new experiment of world-organization he will not for more than a few months be able to hide from them the fact that his new order , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrived for the benefit of the German ruling caste . As a wholly academic theory it might be correct to Nay that Europe would be happier had it from the first been organized into industrial and agricultural groups exchanging their commodities freely with one another . Yet modern Europe is not a purely artificial creation but an organic growth ; Herr Hitler can not cut through the tissues of centuries without lacerating human flesh . Nor can he , even if we accord him powers of control and distribution which he can not possibly perpetuate , impose so artificial a system without acting with a ruthlessness which will provoke passive resistance , sabotage , and famine . He will find sooner or later that the system of force , however he may seek to disguise it , is not workable in a world of modern and therefore of self-reliant human beings , and he will then discover that in basing his whole structure upon force he has destroyed that mutual human confidence upon which alone any contractual system can be erected . Already , as I have said , there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by armies of occupation . From the first he was obliged to suppress all freedom of speech and writing in France ; from the first he has been obliged to impose upon the countries which he has occupied a disguised currency inflation which can not for long retain its disguise ; already he has been forced to deport some 30,000 workmen from Belgium to Germany ; and in the last month he has had to send German contingents into Rumania in order to assure himself that that country 's acceptance of the New Order would remain unqualified . He may be able , for a year or two , to keep vast areas of Europe in a state of subjugation ; yet I repeat that whereas a system which is based upon consent is capable of almost unlimited expansion , a system which is based upon compulsion , however impressive it may seem at the moment , must in the end exhaust the resources and energies of even the most determined and efficient nation . If this be true in terms of human nature and of politics , it is doubly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will unquestionably be faced . Even if he possessed far better means of distribution than he does possess ; even if he had at his disposal an elastic instead of a rigid system of exchange , even if he were able to dispose of all necessary raw materials , he would still be faced by the inescapable fact653 that no economic system can for long be operative which is based upon compulsion alone . By using his tremendous machinery of propaganda , by forbidding free thought and free discussion , by applying his uncanny insight into mass psychology , Herr Hitler may for a short time convince the peoples of Europe that under his system they will find , if not liberty , then at least a guaranteed security . But in the end it will become impossible for him to persuade the peasants and workers of the countries which he has subjugated that their self-interest is identical with the interests of their conquerors . In the end Hitler 's world government is bound to fail . BETWEEN TWO WORLDS Can we ourselves devise an alternative New Order which is more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall not do so if we regard this war merely as a war between Britain and Germany . We shall not do so if we contend that the totalitarian states are wholly wrong and barbarous , whereas we are always reasonable and right . We must recognize from the outset that there is much truth in the criticism leveled against democracy by Herr Hitler and Signor Mussolini : democracy has not lived up to its own magnificent opportunity ; individualism has been allowed to degenerate into egoism , and freedom into the avoidance of sacrifice ; we have thought so much and clamored so much about our rights that we have forgotten all about our duties ; and the inventiveness which democracy has unleashed has provided us with a mechanical opportunity which we have been too lazy , too selfish , and too stupid to exploit for common ends . Today we are hovering between two worlds , one dead , the other  --  it would seem  --  powerless to be born . Our elder statesmen know too little , and our younger men have not the opportunity to put their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proverb . Today it is " Si vieillesse savait , 51 punesse pouvait " ? " If only the old people had the understanding and the young people had the chance . " The old people do not understand . the young people have not got the chance . It is not sufficiently realized in Great Britain that Hitlerism has succeeded because it pretends to be a revolutionary movement . It is not in fact a revolutionary movement ; it is a counter-revolutionary movement . Yet democracy  --  which is a young thing in terms of history ? having inflamed the whole world 160 years ago in the form of a heresy , has not as yet developed the vitality to survive as a doctrine . Hitler has imposed Hitlerism in in the form of a new hesesy . It is for us to reaffirm democracy in the form of a rejuvenated faith . There are many things which Hitler or Mussolini say about democracy which are perfectly true . It is true that democracy arose as a revolt against strong centralized government and has therefore tended to weaken governmental powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exaggerated sense of individual self-indulgence , as of personal property . It is true that democracy has subordinated the constructive plan to a desire to please . It is true that democracy has not given to the sovereign people a sufficient sense of sovereign responsibility . It is true that democracy has proved incapable of coping with its own material , and even spiritual , success . Having achieved the political triumphs at which it originally aimed , democracy has failed completely to carry through those social and economic victories which it ought to have attempted . Democracy , in a phrase , has run to fat . No wonder that the lean , lithe bodies of the Hitler Jugend regard it with arrogant contempt . Yet democracy , if rightly conceived , should not be a middle-aged or middle-class acceptance of the comfortable . It should realize that in contrast to tyranny it is a young and limitless experiment . Autocracy , being essentially material , must always be confined by physical limitations , the physical capacity of a small group to impose its will upon larger groups . Democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has no limit to the possibilities of its expansion . Autocracy relies upon the body ; democracy upon the mind . We must remember none the less that government , and above all world government , must be based upon authority . The best international charters , such as the Covenant of the League of Nations , even as the best types of social order , such as the Denmark or the Sweden of 1938 , can not be imposed or maintained without authority , or in other words without power . In condemning compulsion as a means of national and international government we must not forget that consent has got to be organized and disciplined , and that even righteousness may have to be protected by force . It is not sufficient to devise a democratic world order which will command the sympathy and the assent of the majority of mankind . We must convince the world of four things : first , that our New Order is not merely a device for maintaining the old order more or less unimpaired ; second , that our New Order is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it will possess the physical force to protect those who adhere to it from the aggression of those who may aim at its destruction ; and , fourth , that under our New Order the peoples of the world shall obtain the very advantages which Herr Hitler offers them , and will at the same time retain their liberties , their national identity , and their hope of free development . BRITAIN MUST PLEDGE- How , therefore , are we to create the new democratic world which , while preserving all that was really useful and beautiful in the old , shall convince millions of people that its essential purpose is to create a sane and workable future ? How are we to create this New Order without trampling , as the totalitarian states have tramThe NATION pled , upon the rights of man and the rights of nations ? How are we to devise a system which combines authority with liberty and power with consent ? That is the problem which we , with our tried political genius , are privileged , and indeed destined , to solve . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry conviction both at home and abroad . By that I do not mean only that we should convince people of our good intentions , since the majority of people , although they deride our hypocrisy , would admit that on the whole we are a benignant race . We must convince the masses in our own country that we are determined , at any cost to the present social structure , to carry through a campaign against poverty , and to give to each individual in this island a secure prospect of food , health , habitation , maintenance , and opportunity . We must convince people abroad that we are prepared to give them a free share in the resources of our empire . I do not believe that we shall carry this conviction by making speeches ; I believe that a definite plan should be formulated and published within the next few months . Only when the peoples of the world are convinced that we are willing and able to make drastic concessions to the common good will they accord to our promises and pronouncements that credit which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective , actions of Herr Hitler . Our second task is to secure that our plan offers to the peoples of the world all the material advantages of the Hitlerian system plus the spiritual advantages of liberty and self-respect . We are in the position to do this . We can offer immediate supplies of foodstuffs to any country which is able to liberate itself from the Nazi yoke . We can offer entry into an economic system far wider and infinitely more elastic than any of the rigid systems which Herr Hitler can propound . We can offer them a new World Government which shall be based , not upon the subjugation of all smaller countries to German dictatorship , but upon the cooperation of all free peoples . We can offer them a federation which shall be strong enough to withstand any possible attack , which shall be united enough to eliminate the competition of past economic nationalisms , but which will enable each member of the federation to retain its own identity and habits and to develop its own autonomy . Upon these lines I am convinced we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tyrannical organization of the existing nation-states . Every truly democratic country will be welcomed into this loose federation . Its economic and physical power will be so overwhelming that few countries will be able to remain outside . And by so doing , this little island , with the help and advice of the United States of America , will for a second time in history have saved Europe and therefore the whole world from the loss of those great human values which it has taken man three thousand years to evolve .                     