@@476450

MY FAMILY and I came to South Africa in March 1950 for a visit of eighteen months to Harvard Observatory 's Boyden Station . A Guggenheim Fellowship plus friendly sacrifices by my colleagues at Harvard Observatory and by the administration of Harvard University gave me the rare opportunity to devote myself almost full-time to astronomical research in my chosen area ? the glorious Southern Milky Way . I did not come to South Africa to study the social and political scene . But the astronomer of today can not always live with his thoughts thousands of light years away and my wife and I did take advantage of our unique opportunity to look at South Africa . We made brief trips to most parts of the country and we consistently read the daily papers , Afrikaans as well as English , and the weeklies of all shades of opinion . Somewhat to our surprise we found upon our return home that we had learned much about South Africa which is unknown to our friends in America . Until this spring , the Union of South Africa did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism was forthcoming . Unfavorable attention was drawn to the Union through the debates in the United Nations on the issues of South-West Africa and on the position of the Indians in the Union . South African citizens were rightly annoyed at the exaggerated descriptions of crime conditions in Johannesburg that appeared in the American press and at photographs of Native children behind barbed wire that were printed in such a way as to imply that South Africa 's Natives live in concentration camps . The recent ruling by the South African Appeal Court against the constitutionality of last year 's act to place the Coloured voters on a separate roll , and the ensuing Parliamentary curb on the Court , have focused attention on the Union . While the on-the-spot reporting has on the whole been good , most correspondents are showing little understanding of the historical background of South Africa 's problems . They look upon the present crisis as one caused wholly by the excessive zeal of one small political group , rather than as a manifestation of a racial situation , so difficult as to be almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In presenting my own observations of the country , I should like to stress certain aspects of conditions , past and present , that seem to me to have been wholly or partially ignored , and to touch only lightly on political and social problems that have received adequate attention abroad . My thesis is not that upon close examination we shall find little to criticize , but rather that through greater insight we shall be in a position to analyze South Africa 's problems with increased understanding and thus create an atmosphere in which we of America can make acceptable and effective contributions toward helping South Africa adjust herself internally . To begin with , I should confess that we liked South Africa , the country and its people . The country itself is beautiful and varied . First there is the Cape Peninsula and Cape Town , the old " Tavern of the Seas . " In this charming city the British naturally feel at home because , though its climate is wanner and infinitely more pleasant than that of London , it still has its share of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Looking north from Cape Town one can see the forbidding mountain ranges towering over Paarl and Stellenbosch , the mountains beyond which lie the deserts of the Great and the Little Karroo , the wide-open sunburnt spaces of the Orange Free State , the flowing hills and the Gold Fields of the Transvaal . Along the 1Vest Coast from Cape Town northward is the empty , barren country of South-West Africa with its sand dunes and Skeleton Coast , but along the East Coast the deep blue waters of the Indian Ocean wash against a green and beautiful shore with a string of fine , modern , industrial ports , like Port Elizabeth and East London of the Cape Province , and Durban of Natal Province , already close to the tropics and the East . When I think of South Africa , I think of sunshine , of flowers , of wide-open spaces . I think of glorious skies by day , by evening , by night , and during the silent hours before simrise . I think also of a quiet , determined , and courageous people divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems , racial and otherwise , of almost inconceivable magnitude . II 0 NE can not appreciate South Africa 's problems without a clear understanding of its population structure . The Union of South Africa , the only part of Africa that I really know well , lists its total population as close to twelve and a half million , of which two and a half million arc whites or " Europeans . " The remainder is classified as " Non-European . " Sixty per cent of the whites are of Afrikaans origin , that is originally . Dutch , German , or French Huguenot ; the rest are of British stock . The Non-European population is composed of three main groups : Indians , Cape Coloureds , and Bantu . The Indians , some 350,000 altogether , are found mostly in Natal , especially around Durban . The slightly more than a million Cape Coloureds live mainly in Cape Town and on the Cape Peninsula . Then there are the Bantu , referred to in earlier days as the Kaffirs and later as the Natives or the Africans , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As these figures show , in South Africa the Non-European element of the population out-numbers the European by four to one . To place South Africa 's native problem in its proper perspective , one should imagine the United States with its present white population and a Negro population of about five hundred million . The story of the settling of South Africa is a fascinating and colorful one . For the whites it begins really with the settlement of the Cape Peninsula in 1652 by Jan van Riebeeck and his associates , who were sent there by the Dutch East India Company to grow fresh fruit and vegetables for the Company ships that stopped at the Cape on their way to the Indies . The original Dutch Colony was strengthened by the arrival of about two hundred evicted French Huguenots , a group that has since been thoroughly amalgamated with the Dutch into the proud and compact Afrikanerdom of today , the " Boer " population . At the start there was relatively little British influence in the Cape , but when the Dutch East India Company collapsed during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best interests to take over the management of the Cape . Relations between the Boers and the British were not good , and in the early eighteen-thirties the Boers decided to " trek " northward toward the present Orange Free State , the Transvaal , and Natal . The Great Trek began in 1836 and it led to the settlement by the whites of the whole of the present area of the Union of South Africa . The country into which the " Voortrekkers " moved was not an altogether empty one . It is true that the original inhabitants , the Bushmen and the Hottentots , had already been largely eliminated from the scene , but the Bantu tribes of the north , the Zulu , the Xnsa , the Basuto , were on the move . These nomadic tribes had come southward in search of new grazing lands and , while they had settled down in a few spots , notably in the mountain strongholds , they mostly ranged over the open Veld . Clashes between Bantu and Boer were inevitable . The story of the battles of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sides , and equally of blood and murder . The Boers were badly outnumbered , but they won because they had guns while the Bantu fought with spears and shields . South Africa might have developed peaceand farming are the mainstays of the South African economy . Coal is found in considerable abundance close by some of the richest iron ore and gold deposits . The country 's mineral wealth is great and gold and diamonds alone by no means exhaust the possibilities . There is much manganese and chrome , and enough uranium in the slag heaps of the Johannesburg gold mines to make its extraction worth while . Directly to the north and west of the Union lie other vast areas of mineral wealth still only partly explored , and the development of these will depend in no small measure upon operations directed from Johannesburg . The Union government is doing all it can to encourage industrial developments other than mining and has financed several new major industries . The steel works near Pretoria and at Van der Bijl Industrial Park near Vereeniging , as well as the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the government is the principal financier of the new oil-out-ofcoal project in the northern Orange Free State . Farming is of great importance throughout South Africa . The desert-like karroo and the dry high veld of the Orange Free State are excellent sheep country and , with the price of wool as high as it is today , the wool farmers arc doing very well indeed . There is considerable cattle grazing in the areas where the annual rainfall is twenty inches or more , and in these same areas South African white and native farmers raise their corn , the " mealies " about which one hears in songs like " Sarie Marais . " From the humid Cape Peninsula come the grapes which produce the excellent South African wines and brandies , and oranges . Semi-tropical Natal produces sugar and oranges . South African farmers are faced with two serious problems ? lack of water and soil erosion . There are no obvious large untapped supplies of water in the country and the farmer is at all times subject to disaster through droughts ; one of the worst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( December to March ) of 1951-1952 . The second major problem , soil erosion , is intensified by the fact that the Bantu have been traditionally even more careless in the use of the land than the whites . THROUGH the centuries the Afrikaners , the original Boers , have remained closest to the soil . The typical Afrikaner is a sturdy , sunburned farmer with a little ring beard , a quiet , hospitable , and friendly man , but one who speaks bluntly when the occasion demands . lie is a man consciously proud of his background and tradition , of Afrikaans culture and of the Afrikaans language and its literature . The church plays an important part in his life , and he is certain to be a member of the Dutch Reformed Church , which still preaches a fundamentalist brand of Calvinism that has long since lost its power in the country of its origin , Holland . Today in addition to farming , Afrikaners are doing well in business and the professions , principally law and medicine , and in a town like Bloemfontein , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and - operated . But the Afrikaner is acutely aware of the fact that the key industrial and business positions in cities like Johannesburg are held by English-speaking South Africans and that most financial policies of the giant mining and industrial corporations are directed from London . The Afrikaans language was derived originally from the Dutch and I was brought up to think of it as a sort of pidgin-Dutch . After I learned to understand and speak it , I discovered that it was instead a truly simplified form of Dutch that permits free and accurate expression of one 's thoughts and that possesses unusually fine and beautiful tonal qualities . There is , for the size of the population , an amazingly large literature in the language and I have enjoyed reading the novels of such leading Afrikaans writers as Malherbe and Jonker and especially the fine poetry that has been written in recent years . The Afrikaners have long been aware of the fact that their numbers are small and that their language is always in danger of dying out . According to law , the bilingualism of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the same level in all official documents and debates . The older Afrikaner generally speaks both Afrikaans and English well , but the pride in Afrikaans has gone so far that children of many Afrikaans families now speak practically only Afrikaans , and regard English as a foreign language . In many ways this extreme chauvinism toward the native language is regrettable , but it is understandable in a country where the British element has been loath to accept the challenge of bilingualism . In recent years the trend has been toward permitting the Afrikaner youth to go only to " Afrikaans-medium " schools , i.e. schools where Afrikaans is the principal language and where English is taught only a few hours each week ? and often badly taught . Children from families in which English is the home language are in turn urged ? or sometimes forced ? to attend " English-medium " schools , where Afrikaans is as poorly taught . I should , however , point out that there are many on both sides who protest against this forced emphasis on the home-language , an emphasis that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than bridge the gap between the separate elements of the white population . T HE Cape Coloureds and the Indians are the two important minority groups in the Non-European population of South Africa . In the South African social scale they are rated above the large mass of the Bantu , but below the whites . The history of the Cape Coloureds dates back to the early days of the Cape Colony when miscegenation was not frowned upon Cape Town in those days was a free and easy city in which the white man was permitted to cast his eyes upon the beautiful Malay women who came there as slaves and upon the not-so-beautiful Bushman and Hottentot women . More slaves were brought to the Cape from Central Africa and out of this melting pot came the Cape Coloureds . In South Africa the term " coloured " is reserved entirely for them and one never hears a Bantu , or African , called a " coloured " person . The Cape Coloureds hold themselves aloof from the Native population and live in separate districts of Cape Town , where they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cape Town , too . they keep themselves apart from both whites and Natives . The Cape Coloureds long held the privileged political position of being permitted to vote in elections along with the whites even though this right to vote was restricted to qualified males at the Cape . General Hertzog , who took the Bantu of the Cape off the common voters ' roll , respected the right of the Cape Coloured population to vote with the whites , but this right was abrogated a year ago when Dr. Malan 's Government succeeded in having Parliament accept a law placing the Cape Coloureds on a separate voters ' roll . Strong objections were raised from many sides and , in the fight against this bill , the United Party of the late General Smuts had the support of the liberal " Torch Commandos , " composed in large measure of veterans of the second world war , notably those who fought in North Africa and Italy , who consider themselves defenders of the constitution . Late in March of this year , the South African Appeal Court ? a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equivalent of our Supreme Court ? ruled against the constitutionality of " The Separate Representation of Voters Act . " The Act has been declared unconstitutional because it had been passed by a simple majority of Parliament and not by the two-thirds majority which , according to the Appeal Court , is demanded by the South African constitution . It is difficult to foresee the outcome of the present critical battle between Dr. Malan 's government and the Appeal Court , but while it seems unlikely that the conflict will lead to civil war or Native uprisings ? as has been widely predicted in the American press ? there is no doubt that the Appeal Court 's ruling has brought about a real crisis . The passage by the Nationalist-dominated Parliament of an act creating a " Parliamentary Court " to rule on constitutional issues is not being accepted by the opposition as a conclusive defeat . Further constitutional tests will undoubtedly follow and the action by the Appeal Court has done more than any other single event toward creating a close alliance between the principal factions of the opposition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They came to the country about 1860 when the sugar planters in Natal found that the Zulus were not cut out for work on their plantations ; but many of them headed for the city , where they became traders and small business men and where , through perseverance and work , they have succeeded in establishing themselves . At present there is a ban on further Indian immigration into South Africa , but the Indians who have settled there like the country and have resisted all attempts by the present and earlier governments to repatriate them . By law the Indians are forbidden to cross provincial borders ; there are only very limited numbers of them in the Transvaal , hardly any in the Orange Free State . Greater Bloemfontein counts only four Indians in its entire population ! I think it is no exaggeration to say that most elements of the South African population fear the presence of the Indians . The Europeans arc afraid of their industriousness and fecundity and wish at all costs to prevent them from getting greater privileges and greater freedom to settle . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be worth noting again that the Durban riots of 1949 , the first open outburst of racial warfare in South Africa , were riots in which Zulus fought against the Indians ; in other words , riots in which the European element of the population was not directly involved . T HE millions of Natives ? or , as they are sometimes called , Africans , or Bantu ? outnumber the whites more than three to one . The three British Protectorates within the borders of the Union , Basutoland , Swaziland , and Bechuanaland , as well as the Native Reserves under jurisdiction of the Union government , are their homes by right . They live in great numbers near the big cities , like Johannesburg ; they are found as servants all over the country , where no farm could operate without them ; and they represent more than three-quarters of the total number of people employed in the mines . Much has been written and said about their lack of political representation , their appalling living conditions , their high death rate from tuberculosis , their crime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which make it difficult for them to move about freely . No one in South Africa will deny that the lot of the Native is not a happy one and that some solution must be found if peace is to come to South Africa . Someone like myself , who is a believer in the United Nations and in the Human Rights Declaration , finds much in South Africa that is not to his liking , but at the same time I feel it my duty to bring to public attention in America the fact that much of the current criticism of South Africa is biased . I have , for example , had to revise some of my preconceived notions about Natives working in the gold mines of the Witwatersrand . Working conditions underground are difficult , but they are by no means impossibly bad . The Natives I have seen working in the mines seem generally healthy , well-fed , and cheerful . The salaries of Natives working in the mines are only one-tenth of the salaries of the white workers , but the whites have to clothe and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Natives are provided free of charge with plentiful good food and health supervision , and they are permitted a large measure of self-government in their Compounds . During my visit to the Native Compound at Grootvlei Mine near Johannesburg I was struck by the apparent absence of white supervisors . The principal objections that I have to conditions for the Natives at the mines are that they live there for from eight to fifteen months without their families and in crowded rooms and that they are not permitted to go freely outside the Compound . The mining companies themselves are aware of the unfavorable aspects of these conditions and at some of the new gold mines in the Orange Free State attempts are being made to provide housing for a certain number of Natives with their families and to decrease the number of Natives sharing a room in the Compound . The wages of the Natives working in and around Bloemfontein are low , mostly not higher than $4 to $5 per week , they go poorly clothed , and many of them are without shoes . The quality of housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Location , which are quite livable , to shacks with holes in the roofs that arc quite simply unfit for human habitation . Perhaps the most depressing thing about being a Native in South Africa is the lack of opportunity to advance . While there is no rigid " color bar " in skilled employment , it is , for example , legally impossible for a Native to become a house painter or a plumber in the cities unless he is to work in his Location . But there are certain items on the credit side of the ledger that seem thus far to have gone largely unnoticed . While illiteracy preto say that " the right of the Non-European to exist and to develop is acknowledged , but apart from and under the guidance of the European . " A cry for " Apartheid " was the key slogan of the Nationalist party during the election campaign and " Apartheid " has been the basis of the party 's legislative program over the past few years . This program is centered upon three specific acts that have been passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Europeans and Non-Europeans ; second , the act permitting the government to proclaim " Group Areas , " that is , areas reserved for exclusive habitation by white , by Coloured , by Indian , or by Bantu ; and , third , the act placing the Coloured voters on a separate registration roll . There are other supplementary acts , but these three have been central . A Nationalist friend of mine , high in the party , declared that he felt that the Group Areas Act was the most important piece of legislation that has become law under the Nationalist rule . 1 T. is easy to dismiss the entire Nationalist program as a fascist-inspired move toward racial oppression ; this is the point of view many of the leading news organs in America and Britain have taken . Personally , if I were a citizen of the Union of South Africa , I would oppose the program . But I nevertheless feel that I should make clear to my friends in America that the Nationalist program is a sincere attempt to find a solution to the Native @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black to live in peace within the borders of the Union . To understand why the Afrikaners vote Nationalist in such large numbers , one must probe into the motivating forces that are back of the whole program of " Apartheid . " The principal ones are a fear of numbers and the desire to preserve the country as a " Witmansland , " that is , a white man 's country . While the average Afrikaner wants to see Non-Europeans develop , and while within the limits of his abilities , he helps them achieve a higher standard of living and of culture through state-supported educational and health programs , he explicitly wishes to prevent the Non-European population of his country from ever attaining enough voting strength to outvote the white man . The basic intent of the recent act providing for a separate representation of Coloured voters was to assure that the Coloured voters , however large their numbers may become , will not in the future have a representation in Parliament in excess of the four seats now assigned to them . An educational test for voting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elements of the United party , and which naturally suggests itself to anyone from America , is unthinkable to the average Nationalist , since this principle , once established , would in the end open the door to a Non-European vote far in excess of the European vote . Limitation of the vote on a racial basis and racial segregation are not popular concepts with Americans , though we should be careful not to condemn our distant neighbor too quickly when our own house is not quite in order . We would certainly be in a position to criticize more constructively if we were to take the time first to get acquainted with all the facts in the case . It is , for example , easy for us to sit back and denounce the Group Areas Act as the " Ghetto Act , " but before we do so we should recognize that some of the most liberal plans that have been advanced for finding a solution to the race problem have been in terms of a division of the Union into separate provinces , each of which would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one talks to the Afrikaners who are the backbone of the Nationalist party , one finds that they support their government 's program because they feel that only through this type of program can they make their country a safe place to live for their children and their children 's children for generations to come . In a sense the tragedy of South Africa is that its program for solving the country 's problems seeks , perhaps understandably , to solve the white man 's problem before the Coloureds ' and the Natives ' . In this South Africa is running counter to the program which the United Nations as a whole and the member nations separately are following , however imperfectly , which envisages moving gradually toward a solution where white and black will advance together , with , uppermost in our minds at all times , the thought of preserving human dignity irrespective of color . I hope with all my heart that South Africa will arrive at a satisfactory solution of its problems , but I must say candidly that I am not optimistic about the prospects for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country I can best express by telling how my visit changed my reaction to one of the finest books of our dines , Alan Paton 's Cry , the Beloved Country . When I first read the book I was , of course , struck by the beauty and clarity of its presentation of a tragic situation , but I was frankly annoyed that it did not seem to point toward a solution . Now that I have been in South Africa and I am back in America , I find that I have no ready-made plans to offer . All I can do is to describe a situation which , historically and probably through no fault of any single group , has become one of the most complex of all time . THE Union of South Africa is the key nation for all of Central Equatorial Africa and southward , and what happens in South Africa today is the concern of thinking people the world over . It is obviously to our mutual advantage that South Africa and the United States should get to know each other better . Already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both room and a desire for more . Many American industries already have branches operating within the borders of the Union of South Africa , and there are great opportunities for increased American investments and imports . We in America need South Africa 's raw materials ; South Africa needs and appreciates our advice and assistance in matters relating to agriculture and soil conservation . There is also a great demand in South Africa for technicians at all levels ? a need that the United States can help to satisfy at least in part . The area of cultural co-operation between South Africa and the United States has until now been quite neglected . For their advanced studies , South African students have traditionally gone to Great Britain , and to a smaller extent to Western Europe ; the flow of students from South Africa to America has been exceedingly small . I think I am not unfair in adding that the flow in the opposite direction has been practically non-existent . This is highly regrettable , for it means that the future leaders of South Africa are only rarely well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand that few of our future leaders have more than a vague notion about South Africa and its problems . The first . Ful bright Act funds for American students to go to South Africa will be available for 1953-54 , but there has been so far no easy means for the exchange of the students , teachers , professors , artists , and others who benefit by this act . Our United States Embassy in Pretoria is doing excellent work within the limited means at its disposal , especially through the funds provided under the Smith-Mundt Act , and it is supported in this work by a distinguished group of Americans and leading South Africans who are interested in promoting exchanges . But the truth of the matter is that at the moment only wealthy students find it relatively easy to come to America . The financial implications frighten away South African students of average means , who naturally turn toward Great Britain or ' Western Europe , areas which have long had exchange programs with South Africa . The absence of American students in South Africa is also probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest of both countries that we should promote an adequate program of travel fellowships . An effective exchange program should by no means stop at the academic level . Visits back and forth from political and civic leaders should be encouraged . Newspapermen , who both in South Africa and in America do so much toward shaping public opinion , should be urged to visit the other country ? and not to make their visit there too brief and too hurried . Similar visits by business and professional men , agricultural , soil , and engineering experts would also yield mutual benefits . Increased cultural and economic co-operadon between the United States and South Africa will serve a multiple purpose . First , there would be direct benefits to the economic and cultural life of both countries . Second , South Africans would see how , on a small scale , we share with them some of the same racial problems and how we are progressing toward finding a solution . And , finally , we in America would obtain an insight into South African problems and with that insight an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     