@@270050

In their elegant laboratories near La Jolla , Calif. , General Dynamics scientists are doggedly attacking a difficult problem : how to extract controlled power from hydrogen fusion . The pay off for their work is hidden in the future , but the powerful magnetic fields they have built to hold reacting hydrogen gas at 100 million degrees has already yielded a valuable practical " fallout . " Those same magnetic forces used on a smaller scale have proved remarkably versatile for shaping metal . <P> Swift Action . At a Detroit meeting of the American Society of Tool and Manufacturing Engineers , engineers from General Dynamics ' General Atomics Division demonstrated how the principle works in practice . Magneform - a tool little larger than a home washing machine and using no more current than an electric range - has no moving parts at all . Its essential part is a coil of heavy wire that can take var ious shapes , including a cylinder , a doughnut or a flat disk . When a massive electric current from a capacitor is shot suddenly through a coil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around it . If a piece of metal is near by , the magnetism starts currents flowing in the metal . These currents are surrounded by their own magnetism , and repulsion between the two fields drives the metal violently away from the coil . The action is over in microseconds , but it is powerful enough to push rigid metal into almost any shape . <P> The different coils do different jobs . When the end of a metal tube is inserted into the doughnut-shaped coil , it can be shrunk tightly around any insert such as a plug or a threaded fitting . To expand a metal tube , a cylindrical coil is pushed inside it . A flick of the switch , and the tube expands to bind itself solidly to whatever surrounds it . To stamp a flat piece of metal with a pattern , a trademark of elaborate lettering , the metal is placed between a flat coil and a die . When the coil is activated , the opposing magnetic field in the sheet shoves it away from the coil and presses it into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many useful jobs : aluminum and copper are being joined to porcelain insulators for outdoor wiring ; the metal bands around artillery shells are being fitted quickly without any fuss . The auto industry is using Magneform to produce ball-joint and seal assemblies for front suspensions . Magne-form 's principal advantage over welding , pressing or stamping is its ability to shape metals without the rough handling that such operations ordinarily require . Automated assembly-line operation can be managed easily , and Magneform men are already looking toward the day when most subsidiary parts of an auto engine-carburetors , fuel pumps , etc. - are shaped and stuck together by Magneform.                     