@@430850

THE times have given a new significance to this ancient prayer . It is a hungry world that has emerged from the war , and how to provide it with its daily bread ? by which I mean restoring the world to sound economic health ? is a problem that is vexing business man and statesman alike . In fact , how to get this ancient prayer answered , here and now , is the most practical problem before our politicians , our business men , our labor leaders , and , for that matter , all of us . This phrase was never , even when first uttered , a mere pious aspiration that we be miraculously fed . Never was it less possible for it to mean that than now . The problem of providing the war-weakened world with its daily bread not only runs into world politics , world trade , and world finance ; it is world politics , world trade , and world finance . Not as a churchman , but as a business man , I am impressed by the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become the prayer of the world 's business no less than of the world 's religion . And , still thinking as a business man , I want to suggest that while the mechanics of its answer will be found in the business ' of the world 's market-places and exchanges , the motive , the impulse , the power that will insure its answer must be found in the religion of the churches . What I mean concretely is this : whatever mechanism of international credit and commerce our business men and statesmen devise must be used , if it is to work in time to save the situation , in that spirit of service and sense of moral responsibility which the churches , above and beyond creed , exist to stimulate . That this is not " mere idealism , " in the cynic 's sense of that term , but hard , practical , common sense , is plain , I think , from a simple survey of the straits in which the world finds itself in this after-the-war period . ? 2 What are the underlying facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions of our country are good ; we are the richest nation in the world ; our savings-bank deposits are the largest in our history ; there is enough work that needs to be done to keep every man and woman in the United States busy . There is a vast amount of building that should be done to relieve our housing shortage ; there is no end of work that should be done on our railroads to make good the deterioration of war-time and to extend their service ; there is worn-out machinery of all sorts to be replaced ; and an untold amount of labor could well be expended upon necessary public improvements that were held up during the war .  |p769  And yet there are more than three millions unemployed in the country , and as I write we have just passed through a financial and business crisis , none the less a crisis because it did not wear the familiar garb of a panic . The danger has not yet wholly passed , nor have the most needed remedies been applied . In the light of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extreme ; but the explanation is not far to seek . The fundamental cause of this paradoxical situation is our inability to export our surplus goods . We not only have on hand a surplus of goods , but , as a result of the war stimulus , we possess a surplus-producing ability that would have been thought impossible in 1913 . And up to the moment of writing our exports have continued to fall off from month to month by hundreds of millions of dollars . This is serious business for us , any way that we choose to look at it . Of course , if we do not solve this riddle of international economic relations and find a way to export our surplus goods , it does not mean that we are going to the dogs . It does mean , however , a far-reaching readjustment of our whole plan of national life and work . Unless we find a way to export our surplus goods , there will come a super-competition between businesses and industries within our own country ? a supercompetition not only between our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we can not let off our surplus energy in export trade , we shall use it in fighting one another for domestic business . If such a condition of affairs obtains , this intensified competition will go on for a number of years until the amount of national production will be scaled down to the volume of what we ourselves can consume , plus , of course , whatever export trade we may have . This super-competition will mean a domestic battle of price-cutting and , as an inevitable result , of wage-cutting , which will let us in for all sorts of industrial discontent and political unrest . In the end we shall swing to an economy as extreme as the extravagance we have been practising . All this can not but mean an ultimate lowering of the standards of life in the United States . But is all this necessary ? Why can we not export our surplus goods ? We have them , we want to sell them , and the world can not be restored to its normal economic health nor the peace of the world be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the European nations are for the time too poor to pay for them in gold or in goods . The only way in which the European nations can take off our hands these surplus goods is by the grace of longterm credits extended by the United States . But ? and here is the crux of the matter ? long-term credits can not be extended until there is greater social and political stability in Europe , less danger of revolutions or wars that will make repayment of loans uncertain or impossible . ? 3 Let us look for a moment at the other side of the picture . In Europe the militarywar has been followed by a series of economic wars . These wars , of trade , if not as dramatic , have been as devastating in their effect upon many European nations as was the military war . Now , normal production is the only thing that can  |p770  insure daily bread and daily jobs to the peoples of Europe . Normal production depends upon a steady flow of food and raw materials to where labor is . Until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosperity in the world . At the end of the war food and raw materials were used up in Europe . The lack of food and raw materials has plunged Europe into genuine want and created a shortage of work . As was to be expected , this has resulted in great deficiencies in national incomes , and incitement to revolutionary and semi-revolutionary movements that have overturned governments and precipitated military and economic battles between the exhausted nations . The needs of Europe are so real that in almost every nation the party in opposition to the party in power sees its greatest opportunity for gaining the power itself by pandering to the national and racial prejudices and to the fears and weaknesses of the war-strained masses , who , overburdened and without adequate food and work , demand a change . This results for the most part in opposition parties fighting wise and safe methods of recuperation , which are necessarily slow , and in forcing governments to make even harmful concessions . Thus conditions become worse , taxation heavier , production is more handicapped , the suffering masses are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radicalism and new balances of power . It is because of these conditions that business and banking find themselves unable to give long-term credits . American business men can not be charged with a cold and materialistic indifference to this situation . Our business and banking interests have shown their eagerness to do what they can to remedy the situation by creating new and well-thought-out machinery for the kind of credit needed ? long-term credit . Under the Edge Law there have been formed corporations ? as , for example , the Foreign Trade Financing Corporation , with its credit-giving ability of eleven hundred million dollars ? for the granting of long-term credits to Europe . But this machinery can not work effectively , because the granting of long-term credits has been deemed too risky while European political and social conditions are as unstable , as dangerous , as they have become . ? 4 The fact is that the defect is too deep to be corrected by business and banking alone . Business and banking will be able to solve this critical problem only when the United States cooperates in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We are now facing a situation in which political stability must precede economic restoration . . Everywhere in Europe I found this contention confirmed . The leaders of Europe are under no delusion that American business men and bankers can or will extend the needed longterm credits to a Europe in social and political dissolution . Last year I conferred with business , banking , party , and government leaders in many of the principal countries of Europe , and everywhere these leaders confessed that the necessary social and political stability can be achieved only by the grace of American cooperation . American isolation must in the end make for European dissolution .  |p771  Many of the European governments have been and are guilty of sins of commission and omission . A full understanding of these will show , however , that they are mostly a part of the war 's natural aftermath and of our failure to cooperate adequately . Even if we emphasize these sins to the utmost , we still are compelled to see that they or similar evils can not be prevented unless we do cooperate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our farmers early discovered the truth of this . In the last Congress , you may remember , they asked that a billion-dollar credit be granted Europe , in order that Europe might be able to buy their products . The business interests of the country have found it out , too . ? 5 Now , what are the practical things we can do to help the world and ourselves out of the plight into which we have fallen ? Personally , I think the fundamental need is still to " make the world safe for democracy , " but I think that as a cold matter of business procedure that phrase can now be translated to mean that our immediate aim should be to " make the world safe for long-term credits . " This alone will insure that flow of food and raw materials which will mean , on the one hand , the restoration of Europe to normal work and wealth , and , on the other hand , set free our surplus goods and stimulate our own business health . I have only three suggestions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , may and should do now . First , we should mind our H. 's , and Help Harding , Hughes , and Hoover . These three men are in strategic positions , the three men through whom America must express its political and economic ideas of world-relations . President Harding needs to understand that the great mass of Americans is with him in making this country an active member of an effective association of nations . We must begin to differentiate between the Americanism of political campaigning and the real Americanism involving our duty to our neighbors as well as to ourselves . I am a Democrat who voted for Governor Cox , but this question is greater than partizanship . It should be the aim of every American now to work with and through President Harding . Second , we should make clear to our senators our willingness , our determination , to do our part in helping to restore normal production and distribution in Europe and to establish an effective international court . Third , we should determine by careful study what is necessary to put our millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a plea for the league , but I am not intending primarily to do that . I am emphasizing the points that the facts make it necessary to emphasize , and any sincere study of conditions in Europe will force one to emphasize the imperative need of our association with the nations of Europe if there is to be recuperation and lasting peace . Disarmament agreements are offered by many people as a substitute . Reduction of military expenses is necessary in all nations , because , in Europe especially , they are too great a burden to be borne safely in addition to the huge expenses of the war . But disarmament on an adequate scale is  |p772  impossible without some efficient substitute . There is no substitute for war except law ? international law . But international law effective enough to be a substitute for war is impossible without an association of nations of which the United States is a member . ? 6 To bring order out of chaos in Europe there is mainly need of the understanding by our people that we are really neighbors of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and must act as good neighbors . Lloyd George , speaking in the House of Commons , recently said : " People forget that countries are interdependent . Love your neighbor ' is not only sound Christianity , but also good business . " And where the power of business is limited , religion , the churches , can help much . Religion has no more important mission to fulfil than to make its doctrine of " love thy neighbor " come to the world 's aid in this crisis . International neighborliness , international friendship , is religion in action , applied religion . We are not good neighbors if from a position of comparative safety we use our superior strength selfishly while we see our neighbors fighting with their lives to keep intact the dam that stems the threatening flood of destruction . We can be good neighbors to Europe only if we lend our strength to save her from the flood of want , unemployment , and anarchy that threatens her . Besides the business and material reasons , it seems to me there are real ethical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and help . We pray , " Give us this day our daily bread . " Would any of us confine this prayer to bread for Americans alone ? And daily bread can not come in time to Europe unless we in the United States make it possible not as a paliative through alms , but through real international friendship . Organized religion can help by giving leadership and voice to the understanding of our countrymen . This is the great opportunity for religion . The road back to peace and universal daily bread will indeed require all the world 's best qualities ? the best qualities of business and of religion combined . The surest way to make these qualities effective is through international friendship . Invention and progress have made our nation the physical neighbor of every other nation , have brought London and Paris nearer Chicago than the thirteen States were to one another when we made our United States . Nationally , we must think and act in a neighborly fashion like good neighbors or fight like bad neighbors . The church 's fundamental ideals are justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international friendship , the foundations for international cooperation . The measures needed for the restoration of our material prosperity are the same as those needed for our spiritual salvation . We have so far failed to restore the world through the processes of partizan politics , and we are beginning to see that we can not restore the world through the processes of business alone . There must be stirred in us something of the religious motive of social responsibility before we can shake off the incubus of partizanship and clear the way for the effective use of our business energies in the task of organizing the peace of the world .  |p773                      