@@724850

Vice President Humphrey came to Paris today amid signs that the French Government might be seeking to improve its relations with Washington . Mr. Humphrey arrived at Le Bourget Airport in the middle of the afternoon with Maj. James A. and Maj. Edward H. White 2d , the Gemini astronauts who spent four days in space early this month . Mr. Humphrey is to meet with President de Gaulle on Sunday afternoon . At a news conference ' on his arrival , the . Vice President said he would " personally bring the greetings of President Jolui.son to the general . " " One of the math reasons for our visit , " . he added , " was to come here to pay , ' respects to a great nation , a gttt people and a great leader . " Flanked by the trim , beaming astronauts and by Ambassador Charles E : Bohlen , Mr. Humphrey spoke at the main auditorium of the Paris Air Show . The show , which opened last week , has so far been dominated by the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ won spectacular headlines in the European press by exhibiting a model of a supersonic airliner and , a day later , by dramatically 1 , n.cling a giant plane capable of carrying more than 700 passengers . Yuri Gagarin , who was the first man in space , has been at ? .. e Bourget for several days . The surprise visit by Vice President . Humphrey and the two astronauts has been interpreted here as a last-minute American measure to even the propaganda score . But the Vice President 's airport statement made it clear that the visit had political implications far wider . Diplomats noted that General de Gaulle had agreed with alacrity , on extremely short notice , to receive Mr. Humphrey . Informed sources said the United States Embassy advised French authorities of the forthcoming visit this morning and requested that he be received either by the President or by Premier Georges Pompidou . The answer , given almost im ' mediately , was that President de Gaulle himself would meet with the visitor , the diplomatic sources said . General de Gaulle 's schedule is heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he wished to avoid a meeting . Schedule Is Grueling This evening was taken up by celebrations of the 25th anniversary of the beginning of his wartime resistance . Tomorrow and Sunday morning he is to tour the Paris region on the last of three grueling speaking tours in five days . In the last few days the French have made several gestures apparently intended to lfit , at least partly , and perhaps temporarily , the heavy chill that has existed between the countries in recent months . On Tuesday Finance Minister Valery Giscard d'Estaing made a speech that was interpreted as a public renunciation of the talk about going back to the gold standard . Such talk had been inspired by General de Gaulle 's news conference last February . On Wednesday Mr. Giscard , d'Estaing announced that France would pay back to the United States , ahead of time , about $180 million of her postwar debt . The Finance Minister described the payment as " an olive branch that I am sending by mail to the United States . " On Thursday , Foreign Minister Maurice Couve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly , declared that this policy was " not inspired by any desire to oppose the United States of America , our friends and protectors . " It had been some time since the United States had been described in such terms by a French official . French officials today said that they expected the de Gaulle-Humphrey conversations to range over all principal points of French-American disagreement , including Vietnam , the Dominican Republic and French policies in Europe . Mr. Humphrey and the astronauts were met at the airport by Foreign Minister Couve del Murville . Mr. Humphrey was accomi panied by Tames E. Webb , director of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ; Charles W. Mathews , manager of the Gemini program , and Julian Scheer , public-relations officer for NASA . Mrs. Humphrey , Mrs. and Mrs. White were also in the group . At his news conference Mr. Humphrey recalled that President Johnson had congratulated the Soviet Union on its achievements in space . " We salute the achievements of Russia and thOe astronauts , " he said , " but it appeared to us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ astronauts tell you first hand about some of the things they did on their last flight . " He added : " We have not come here with competition as our goal , " the Vice President said . " We repeated our proposition to cooperate with the Soviet Union in space research . The proposal could go together to the moon . " Major White drew laughter and applause when he ventured into French upon being introduced . He said , " Bonjour , mes amis . " Asked whether he would like to be the first man on the moon , Major turned to Major White and said , " definitely yes , but together with my buddy . " Major White , also grinning , added , " Very strongly yes  --  together . " Mr. Humphrey and the astronauts plan to spend most of tomorrow at the air show .                     