@@703350

Revolution and conquest have become such a common affair abroad that Congress is being asked to pass a law giving American banks permanent protection against depositors ' claims arising out of expropriation of the property of their foreign branches . The memory of the confiscation of foreign funds in Russia in the 1917 revolution has suddenly gained meaning for this government and some of the larger banks as they view the ravages of civil war in Spain and the conflict in China . The specific protective legislation was introduced by Senator Wagner . chairman of Senate Banking &; Currency committee , who said it had been approved by the Federal Reserve Board . At least two large banks were reported here to be interested in it  --  the Chase National Bank and the National City Bank . both of New York . The immediate value of the legislation is believed to be in protecting the banks with branches in China where both the invaders and the defenders are reported to be hard pressed for funds to carry on their war . The bill would put foreign branche.s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at any time and by freeing them from responsibility for assets seized , confiscated , destroyed or impaired by the action of the foreign countries . When assets have been so seized or impaired , the liability of the parent bank to the depositors in the unfortunate branch would be reduced by the amount of the loss . The Comptroller of the Currency would decide how much to write off after a confiscation had struck the branch of a national bank and the Federal Reserve would make the decision in the special case of national bank branches organized under Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act with the power to function as fiscal agents of the United States . Further protection is provided in cases of sudden changes in foreign laws affecting banks such as would happen in the case of one country being absorbed by another or in the rise to power of a revolutionary party . Such cases would be covered by a section which would limit the liability of a parent bank for deposits in its foreign branches to the liability of a bank organized in the foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes in the political or governmental situation in foreign localities . It states : ' Within the meaning of this section . the laws of such foreign country or locality shall include all acts , decrees , regulations and executive orders promulgated or enforced by a political or military authority at the time asserting governmental power in the territory of such branch or agency whether or not such authority be recognized as de facto or de jure government . " The bill seeks to give the banks with foreign branches a graceful way of anticipating trouble by allowing a branch to close any demand deposit by paying or offering to pay to the depo : . tor the credit balance in the account and then remain liable only for the current value of the unpaid deposit balance as of the Cate of the offer . This would not affect the reduction in liability for confiscation or seizure If a banking institution is not now legally entitlted under its agreement with depositors to terminate liability , the bill provides it may give notice of passage of this bill to the depositor by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disturbed condition " exists in the foreign locality which endangers the lives of the branches ' employes or the property of the hank so that it becomes " impracticable " to continue operation , the head of the branch can suspend indefinitely in whole or in part . Senator Wagner intends to hold hearings on the measure as soon as is convenient for his committee . He admitted yesterday that it was favored by several large banks who want to " avoid the Russian situation "                     