@@696350

Those who have been skeptical of the claim that the next war will be fought almost exclusively in the air were interested in the observe-Lions on the subject by Rear Admiral Moffett in a speech at Louisville . Admiral Moffett is chief of the naval bureau of aeronautics and one of the ablest and most energetic friends of aviation in the country . Therefore he would have been excused had his imagination and enthusiasm for flying prompted him to overestimate the uses and probable future uses of aviation . But Ad. mita/ Moffett confined himself , we think , to realities . " lt is ridiculous to say that aircraft will sup ? plant surface vesiele , either merchant or naval , and those who say so do so from ignorance , " Admiral Moffett said . " Aviation has abolished and replaced nothing , It will not Interfere with other means of transportation , rallrn ds , ear lines , buses . steamships and other maidt/me transport , but Is supplemental to them . Similarly in national defense and especially at sea . " Admiral Moffett @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to men with an enthusiastic but uncritical understanding of the subjectSpeculation as to the future of aviation has been largely by analogy . From the buggy to the auto. - mobile to the airplane or from canal boat to railroad to airplane is the natural progress which the process of analogy suggests . Such progress may not be imposaible , but 11 It Is not achieved , those who have accepted It as inevitable will be disappointed . Is It not more likely that the airplane will have particular , supplemental functions as Admiral Moffett has suggested ? Especially in military affairs is it important that the probable uses of the airplane be understood , for there Is danger of neglecting other branches of the service It too much confidence is placed in the claims of the aviators t*at they will carry the load of battle . Perhaps the greatest factor which Is overlooked In predicting the course of aviation is the weather . On a bright , cloudless day a fleet of airships undoubtedly could destroy a fleet of ships . But ' the days on which such a maneuver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarmists , who would all but abandon sea forces , are not well Informed or they are deceiving themselves . Planes will certainly be used both in offensive and defensive naval warfare , but , as Admiral Moffett : recd , tile ; will preezb , ) . ? t , upptemental . Likewise the use of planes for reconalsearico work and for bombing will likely be far greater than it was in the last war , but they will here be supplemental , too . Little good , we think , can come of planning the career of aviation without consulting he limitations . The things lialt the airplane can do arc phenomenal . It Is wiser , ? lherefore , to promote Its real uses than to seek uses for which it is not equipped .                     