@@781250

The Army Appropriation bill has passed both houses of Congress , and now goes to the President for his approval . When the bill was taken up by the Senate to-day the few amendments of the Senate Committee were agreed to without debate . An amendment providing that the Adjutant General of the army should have the rank , pay , and allowance of a Major General was ruled out on a point of order . Mr. Foraker ( Rep. , Ohio. ) offered the amendment of which he gave notice a few days since , declaring against the granting of franchises in Cuba . omitting the portion relating to the withdrawal of United States troops in the island . The amendment as offered was as follows : That no property , franchises , or concessions of any kind whatever shall be granted by the ' United States or by any military or other authority whatever in the island of Cuba during the occupation thereof by the United States . This amendment was adopted after a spirited debate . Mr. Sewell ( Rep. , N. J. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not relevant , but he was overruled by a viva voce , vote . Mr. Burrows ( Rep : . Mich. , ) stated : that he had been informed by the War Deportment to-day that no franchiSes had been granted and that none was to be granted . Mr. Morgan ( Dem. , Ala. , ) thought the amendment ' premature and a dangerous innovation He said ' there were many men in Cuba ready to cut each other 's throats , and we should go slow in our deliberations . Mr. Morgan contended that the matter should be left in the hands of the President . When we find such a tumult as there has been over Gen. Gomez 's acceptance of the $3,0001 ) 00 proffered by the United States it is evident that the people are not capable of self-government , " he said . Mr. Platt ( Rep. , Conn .. ) also argued that the amendment was unnecessary , and that it was an unjustified insinuation . Mr. For-alter said that was undue sensitiveness . He disclaimed any intention to tefiect upon the President . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain Senators . He read an article from The Washington Star giving an interview with the President of the Colonial Board , saying that the board would rake up questions affecting patents and the granting of franchises . Evidently , he said . the intention was to grant a railroad franchise , which would not be justified . " If this programme is to be followed , " he continued , " the United States wo n't get out of Cuba for a hundred years . " " Of course it wo n't , " interjected Mr. Hale . ( Rep .. Me . ) Mr. Foraker said that the President had in fact invited Congress to legislate when he had in his Boston speech said that the . matter was now in the hands of Congress . " Does the Senator not know . " asked Mr. Hale , " that any attempt at legislation is to be contravened and stifled ? I am surprised that you do n't see the attempt to stifle and thwart all efforts at legislation . " Replying to this point . Mr. Foraker said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he had not supposed that there was any effort to thwart legislation . Mr. Lodge ( Rep. , Mass. , ) supported the amendment . It was important that this country should be absolute13. , free from all imputation of favoritism in the administration of the affairs of Cuba . To pursue a course calculated to prevent this imputation was to strengthen the President 's hands and not to cast an imputation , as had been charged . Mr. Spooner ( Rep Wis .. ) contended that no franchise could be granted of longer life than our occupation . Mr. Mason declared his opposition on the ground that we have no right to traffic in the future of the Cubans . He declared there had been no occasion for the appointment of the board because the administration of the War Department by Ger .. Alger had been clean-handed. deleted paragraph                     