@@706950

President Roosevelt inspected American troops in French Morocco today , surprising them by his presence and leaving their faces wreathed in smiles . The President reviewed the troops from a jeep driven by Staff Sergeant Oran Lass of Kansas City , Mo. , who was the proudest soldier in the United States Army but maintained an air of impec cable dignity throughout . In the jeep with the President were Lieut . Gen. Mark Clark , Commander of the United States Fifth Army ; Charles Fredericks , the President 's personal bodyguard , and the general officer commanding during the inspection of the troops . Immediately behind the Presidential jeep was another with bodyguards and the following jeep contained Major Gen. George S. Patton Jr. , commanding United States troops in French Morocco ; Rear Admiral Ross , the President 's physician , and Harry Hopkins , Presidential adviser . In another car were Robert Murphy , American Minister for French Africa , and W. Averell Harriman . The soldiers reviewed were totally unaware of the President 's presence in Africa and confessed later that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brass hats " when they rehearsed yesterday for the review . Standing rigidly at attention and unable to look in the direction from which the President was coming , each was surprised in turn as Mr. Roosevelt 's jeep drew opposite him . The Presidential convoy formed at 9:30 A. M. , skirted Casablanca and drove directly to the review area some miles north . The only correspondents present were 011ie Stewart , Negro reporter for the Baltimore Afro-American ; Sam Schulman , International News photographer , and myself . We had been summoned at 9 A. M. , uncertain what was in store for us . We passed guards at a gate in the barbed-wire barricade and waited in a luxurious reception room . Finally we crossed the room , which had been partitioned into an office . Scotland Yard and Secret Service agents , American military police and Royal Marines were present . Our convoy consisted of official limousines and armored scout cars with .50-caliber machine guns , and weapon carriers bearing official Signal Corps photographers and ourselves  --  about twenty altogether . We were preceded and followed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airport , where scores of fighters took off to form a vast air umbrella that protected us throughout the day . The President , wearing a gray felt hat , a gray suit with a white pinstripe and a white pullover sweater , rode in the limousine of Lieut . Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , Allied Commander in Chief in French North Africa . The convoy proceeded to the review area , where troops were lined up for at least a mile in front of their tanks , half-tracks , scout cars and artillery of all sizes and calibers . The convoy stopped and the President mounted his jeep , which , after a band had played the national anthem , drove slowly in front of the soldiers . Mr. Roosevelt 's Secret Service bodyguards , wearing Armored Corps battle jackets , walked beside his jeep . The President occasionally laughed and joked with the generals accompanying him . Several times he spoke to the men . Mostly he appeared deadly serious . The reviewing party passed into an open field swept by a brisk wind . The President laughed when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clark . Mess Sergeant Joseph Baer of Sharon , Wis. , had a field kitchen set up near twenty small tables with folding chairs . The President opened and inspected " K " concentrated emergency rations . Then he was introduced to fifty representative men and officers who were decorated with Silver Stars and Purple Hearts for their part in the initial occupation . President Eats Field Lunch Sergeant Baer ' served a typical infantry field lunch of ham , green beans , sweet potatoes , coffee , bread liberally spread with butter , mixed fruit and strawberry preserves . The President and all of us ate from new mess kits . Among the photographers from Tunisia who attended was Corporal Robert Hopkins , who saw his father for the first time in months . It began to cloud up as the party re-entered the cars and drove a mile farther , where three companies of troops and armored vehicles were lined up in an open field . ? The President drove among them in his jeep and then took up a position and the vehicles passed in review . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardest fighting in the North African cam . awn . It paused in front of the colorful Tcssbah Medhia , the 400-year-old Portuguese fort around which hand-to-hand fighting raged for three days . The President 's limousine stopped in front of the neat cemetery along the Kasbah , adjoining the ancient French cemetery , where he laid a wreath at the foot of the flagpole . The cemetery , bearing a sign " U. S. Military Cemetery , " in English , French and Arabic , is bounded by a white picket fence and the graves of officers and men bear white crosses . 