@@689250

Political and official Washington received its first distinct surprise at the hands of the new Administration late this after-noon. when an announcement was made at the White House that Former Representative Campbell B. Slemp of Virginia received the offer of the office of Secretary to the President and had accepted . The place pays $7,500 a year . Mr. Slemp will not take charge until after Labor Day . It had been generally expected that the appointment would go to Edward T. Clark , who has been Secretary to the Vice President , and was formerly Secretary to Senator Lodge , who is a Massachusetts man of wide acquaintance among Republicans in that State . , While the official announcement made no reference to the future relationship between President Coolidge and Edward T. Clark . who has been his private secretary , it was learned tonight that Mr. Clark would be retained by the President in that position . The explanation given for the failure of the President to name Mr. Clark is that Mr. Coolidge sought a man of wider political view and more closely in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also believed that the President desired a secretary who was in close touch with Congress and whose advice might be relied upon in legislative matters . Mr. Slemp 's friends say he has many qualifications which commended him to the President . He is man of independent means . His father was a member of Congress and a large land owner in Southwestern Virginia . Mr Slemp has large coal properties in Virginia and has been actively interested in their management . He is a member of the Army and Navy , Chevy Chase and Washington Country clubs , bachelor , and popular in Washington 1 society . Mr. Slemp has been active in Republican Party polities. not only in his own State . but nationally , and especially in connection with the progress of tha party in the South . He is a r  --  ember of the National Committee and was consulted by President Harding in development of the latter 's plans for upbuilding the party in the Southern States . Immediately after the nomination of Mr. Harding he asked Mr. Slemp to go to Marion and discussed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inauguration of Mr. Harding Mr. Slemp and other Republikan leaders announced that an effort would be made under the Har.ling Administration to build up a real Republican sentiment in rock-ribbed Democratic strongholds below the Mason and Dixon line . It was stated at the time That these leaders felt that Republican victories in 1920 in Kentucky , Tennessee and elsewhere in the South justified an attempt to reorganize and strengthen the party in that section . It was recalled in Washington tonight that Mr. Steam had argued soon after the inauguration of Mr. Harding that the Republican Party needed the South , and that President Harding had asked groups of Republican citizens in the South who might reflect the best sentiment of their sections to make suggestions for the reorganization of the party in that part of the country . Mr. Slemp might be described in the political nomenclature of the South as a " lily white . " He made - it clear that he and others interested in aiding Mr. Harding 's plans for reorganization did not wish to develop a situation where " negro domination of the South would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He opposed and voted against the Dyer Anti-Lynching bill in the House , being supported in this by a majority of the Republican members from Tennessee and Oklahoma , including Miss Alice Robertson . Removing Geographical Partisanship . The action of President Coolidge in asking Mr. Slemp to become secretary is interpreted as removing all question of geographical partisanship at the outset of the new Administration . There is a disposition in Washington to regard the appointment as being of much political significance . It is generally admitted that Mr. Slemp 's political experience and connections may not only serve the new President , but also the party . Furthermore , political experts profess to see in the Slemp appointment a step along the road which it is expected will lead to the nomination of President Coolidge next year . Before the 1920 convention Mr. Slemp was inclined to favor the nomination of Senator Knox , of Pennsylvania . During the convention ' he was an active supporter of the candidacy of former Governor Frank C. Lowden of Illinois . The fact now is recalled that Governor Lowden came to Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coolidge . Whether there is any connection between this luncheon and the appointment of Mr. Slemp has not been learned . The question has been asked in Washington tonight by those who are speculating as to the influences which brought about the appointment of the new secretary . If Governor Lowden recommended the selection of Mr. Slemp , the political wiseacres are inclined to stress the incident as further evidence of the Republican swing to Coolidge for the nomination next year . Those who are in a position to know Mr. Slemp best assert that he possesses a fine faculty for sensing political situations , and that in that respect his appointment might be regarded as ideal . He was formerly a. professor of mathematics at Washington and Lee University , has a keen mathematical mind and is a rather close analyst of men and measures . He knows Capitol Hill very well . Text of White Rouse Announcement . Here is .. , the text of the White House announcement : " It was announced this afternoon at the White House that former Congressman Campbell Bascom Slemp of Virginia has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President . Mr. Slemp has not yet closed up his personal affairs , so that he will not be able to take permanent charge of the office until tile day following Labor Day . " Mr. Slemp is a native of Turkey Cove , Lee County , Va. ; born 1870 , he . was graduated from the Virginia Military Institute at Lexington in 1891 and studied law at the University of Virginia ; taught mathematics at the Virginia Military Institute , 3000 and 1901 , and practised law at Big Stone Gap , Va .. thereafter . He is President of the Slemp Coal Company , the Hamilton Realty Company and other corporations . He has been Chairman of the Republican State Committee of Virginia since 1905 . " Mr. Slemp 's father , the Hon. Campbell Slemp , was a member of Congress for several terms from the Ninth Virginia District , and his death , in 1907 , It/I/Ise 7zorne , sicxehnot , nwowas becomes toSeaereyuntoexpired term . Theerafter he was re-elected regularly to the . Cixty-first , Sixtysecond , Sixty-third , Sixty-fourth . Sixtyfifth , Sixty-sixth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to giv attention to his personal affairs . His home is at Big Stone Gap . ? ? Owing to his long Congressional service , he is one of the most widely acquainted men in public life . He was one of the intimate friends of the late President Harding . who offered him a place on the Civil Service Commission , later the position of Assistant Secretary of Commerce and at still another time that of Ambassador to Peru . All of these were declined . " Mr. Slemp is a member of the Army and Navy Club and the Washington Country Club . He is a bachelor . " Mr. Christian will remain until Mr. Siemp is ready to take over the office , and so long thereafter as may be desired to assist Mr. Siemp with the details of the office . Mr. Christian expects to take a long rest and then go into business . He has a number of gratifying offers of connections . " Mr. Slemp 's fourteen years of service in the House of Representatives won for him a wide acquaintance and many personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of public interest in an accusation made in the House , in , a contested Virginia election case last Winter , that Mr. Slemp was " the disburser of all patronage " in Virginia and in other Southern States . This accusation was made by Thomas Walter Harrison , Democrat , then the sitting member from the seventh or Winchester district of Virginia . The Republican candidate against Mr Harrison in the 1920 election was Colonel John Paul of Harrisburg , who served with the A. H. F. in France . Colonel Paul contested the election of Harrison , and the contest was referred to the Election Committee , of which Representaitve Dellinger of Massachusetts was Chairman . That committee vote , ; to seat the Republican and unseat Mr , Harrison . The contest came before the House Dec. 15 , 1922 . During the debate Representative Harrison asserted that Re publican leaders in Virginia were selling Federal patronage . While he did not directly make this charge against Mr Slemp , he produced letters signed b3 Mr. Slemp and his secretary , and cancelled checks indorsed by Mr. Slemp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the alleged sale of patronage ir several places . The cancelled checks made out in favor of Mr. Slemp , were sent to Mr. Harrison by R , R. Power of Gretna , Va. , who had authority to collect money for the Republican Party Checks produced by Mr. Harrison indicated that over 8900 had been collectec by Powell and turned over to Mr Slemp and his secretary , L. B. Howard Siemp Denied the Charge . Mr. Slemp answered the charge , say ing : " In 1921 the Republicans of Virginia desired to pay their proportional parr of the national Republican deficit anc decided to do so through small subscriptions . B. R. Powell did some wort in that connection , I being the member of the Republican National Committee for that State . " Neither Mr. Powell nor Mr. Howard , nor anyone eles was authorized to make collections of money with the promise of appointment of office . If such were done it was done without my approval , knowledge or consent in any way . " Mr. Powell has been interested ir the post office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , recently made , was not adopted . He vents his disappointment by exhibiting checks for small amounts of money , all signed by himself , which were used for perfectly legitimate purposes , partly for paying off the deficit above referred to , and some for the Virginia State campaigr of 1921 . " After the making of the accusation by Mr. Harrison the House . by a vote el 203 to 100 , unseated Mr. Harrison and seated Colonel Paul . The contention wer that the Democratic officeholders refused to permit Republicans to vote in some districts and generally . violated the Virginia registration law . The seating of Colonel Paul in De . cember followed the election of last November , when Mr. Harrison war elected , on , nc face of the returns , for the Sixty-eighth Congress , which will meet next December .                     