@@732250

With the confirmation of Juan Carlos de BorbOn as King Juan Carlos I , Spain has finally moved , officially and symbolically , out of the incredibly drawn-out era of Francisco Franco . As he was obliged to do , the 37-yearold King swore to , uphold the principles and defend the system imposed for 36 years by the Generalissimo who anointed him . But he surely knows  --  that Franquismo died with its creator , and that the basic question is : Which way will Spain.now go ? The young King 's responsibilities are awesome . un his conduct may depend not merely the life of a restored Spanish monarchy  --  perhaps not a very vital issue ' across the long span of history  --  but the very survival of a nation whose character still embraces many tendencies that exploded . into the tragedy of the 1936-39 Civil War . The King 's assets are few and his liabilities are formidable for such a burden . The assets include his manly bearing , a reserve of good will from Spaniards and others who recognize the weight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of most of his countrymen to tolerate trial and error , flaw and false start from their leaders in order to avoid another fratricidal conflict . Yet the supply , of good will has been eroded by the embarrassment of Juan Carlos 's long sojourn in the wings . He has been unavoidably tarnished by the harsh repression of Franco 's last years . He was acutely embarrassed in 1974 , when the was abruptly shoved aside after exercising power for 45 days during the Generalissimo 's illness . The new King 's greatest liability is his long association with the Franco regime and with the Generalissimo who arbitrarily chose him as the future head of state over the legitimate claims to the throne of his exiled father , Don Juan . Friends say Juan Carlos recognizes the need for substantial change and aspires to lead Spain back into a close association with Western Europe ; but it will be difficult for him to move out from under the Caudillo 's imprint . Even before becoming King he had been warned by diehard rightist 's , includirig.Franco 's Civil War comrades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no doubt , however , that if he is able to move the country out of repression and toward Western-style democracy he will carry with him the great majority of Spaniards , including many who have long been hostile to restoring the monarchy . From every standpoint , but particularly for the sake of national unity , civil peace and economic prosperity , it is imperative for Spain to begin without delay the restoration of freedom and the construction of a democratic society in tune with those on the other side of the Pyrenees . If he is bold enough to undertake the leadership in that essential task , King Juan Carlos I will have the powerful support of the European Community , which has long made clear that it would enthusiastically welcome a democratic Spain into membership . Such an initiative ought . also to have the generous backing of the United States , for which a free Spain would be a more reliable and useful partner .                     