@@722950

Washington It is worth asking these days just how powerful France 's independent nuclear deterrent will become . For it is on this nuclear power that President de Gaulle relies , along with his favored European Common Market position , for French prestige and the leadership of Europe . Ask French officials and they will tell you that France will be building an increasingly effective , creditable deterrent through the 1960 's . Ask Pentagon experts and they will strongly dispute the French claim , declaring that France has no effective means of accomplishing its primary objective , which would be . in case of war . to reach Soviet targets . Ask French officials again , and they dispute the Pentagon 's comments . How does the argument run ? The French insist that their atomic bombs can indeed be carried , if need be , to Soviet cities . Their 1,200-mile-an-hour Mirage IV bombers  --  three of which will be ready at the end of 1963 and 50 by 1966 ? could reach many major targets in the western U.S.S.R. A A A The French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SAM-2 high-altitude antiaircraft missiles around their cities . But , it is argued , these French bombers would be able to zoom in at very low altitude and get through . Moreover , the French continue , by late 1967 the Mirage will be fitted with an air-to-ground missile , the AS-2 , with supersonic speed and a range of 300 miles . This wo n't be the 1,000-mile Skybolt , a true ballistic missile , but it can reach targets denied to bombers . A heavier version of the Mirage , the Minerve , will be ready by 1969 , also mounting the AS-2 . A . A Finally , by the end of the 1960 's the French will have , it is asserted , genuine two-stage ballistic rockets , capable of reaching Soviet targets even as Soviet intermediate-range missiles can reach Western European targets . The first stage of this French rocket was tested recently in Africa . What does the Pentagon say to all this ? mainly that the French are being very hopeful . The United States military report that the Soviets are putting into operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SAM-3 ) which is able to knock out fast , low-flying planes even as the SAM-2 reaches the high-flying craft . Sartorial Grandeur The Mirage has too short a range , even with aerial refueling , to take roundabout , evasive routes to the Soviet targets . Flying where expected , the French bombers would be , nearly every one , shot down . As for the AS-2 missiles , they also are of too short a range . As for the longer-range ballistic missiles , they have yet to be built . This is the American contention . To which the French reply : Ah , but the Americans have no weapon just like the SAM-3 themselves , and we dispute their intelligence estimates . The Soviets can not possibly defend their whole territory with short-range antiaircraft weapons . A A A Somebody is wrong here . Someone 's estimates are incorrect . But if it is the French who are wrong . President de Gaulle is far from admitting it . His 50- to 150-kiloton atomic bombs ( French hydrogen bombs are unlikely before 1970 ) may be much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are far more devastating than the bomb which hit Hiroshima . They could n't finish a nuclear war , but they could start one , where French vital interests were involved . Or they could render France such a prospective " prickly porcupine " that an enemy might not attack . Of course , President de Gaulle may contemplate engaging the talents of some of his allies ( even West Germany ) and building , eventually , a truly formidable nuclear " third force . "                     