@@701450

As word flashed across the nation of the death of Senator Huey P. Long , who succumbed to an assassin 's bullet just before dawn today , the forces which will decide the destiny of the political empire he founded in Louisiana began to shape their strategy for the political fight Ito come . News of the death of Senator Long was published in an extra edition of TEE NEW YORK TIMES yesterday morning . Even before the Senator is entombed in the shadow of the $5,000 , - 000 skyscraper State House which symbolizes his power in the State , his followers and foes gathered to solidify their ranks in the bid for the power which the Senator relinquished in death . The extent or Senator Long 's power in Louisiana , the scene of a succession of spectacular moves which made him a virtual dictator , was never more forcibly demonstrated that when he lay on his deathbed . As he staggered from a corridor of the Capitol at 9:30 o'clock Sunday night , mortally wounded by a shot fired into his abdomen by Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order ? " no statement to any one . " Until his death was announced nearly thirty-one hours later even the absence of formal physicians ' bulletins left rumor the only source of information as to his condition . Body Will Lie in State . The Senator , gravely wounded by the bullet which punctured his colon in two places and pierced a kidney , succumbed in Our Lady of the Lake Sanitarium at 4:06 A. M. ( 6:06 Eastern daylight time ) today and his death was formally announced four minutes later . His body was removed early today to the Rabenhorst Funeral Home , where it will remain until 1 o'clock tomorrow afternoon . At that time the coffin in which his body lies will be transferred to the . marble-tiled rotunda of the Capitol he built , there to remain in State until the hour of his funeral at 4 o'clock Thursday afternoon . Baton Rouge , where Long perhaps numbered his smallest following throughout all Louisiana , displayed today an atmosphere of sober calm and sadness the city has not felt in many years . Flags flew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jocular repartee did not exist in the State Capitol Building , and despite the fact that the only outward sign of the Senator 's death was the flag above it at half staff , a funereal pall in its chambers was evident , although no crape was draped on the building . But in death as well as in life Senator Long 's grip on the Legislature was firm . The Senate Finance Committee met briefly in the forenoon and gave its routine approval to the bills which the Senator on Sunday had approved before the House Ways and Means Com . mittee and sped on their way to final passage . ' Only one-bill of minor importance was sidetracked and another slight . ly amended  --  both without explana* tion  --  before the whole legislative program for which the current spa . cial session was called had been ad. vanced for final passage tomorrow. ; During an afternoon session thei Senate adopted a resolution authorizing the burial of the powerful political figure oft the grounds of the Capitol . The measure ex. pressed sorrow at the death of Sen .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respected " and re ? ferred to his passing as " the irreparable loss to the nation . " The Senate will meet again tomorrow morning to pass the bills which were introduced Saturday night when the special session of the Legislature was convened . The House also will meet to concur in amendments . The Senator 's program will be enacted before noon , so the building will be vacated before his body is taken from the undertaking establishment to Memorial Hall , there to rest for twentyseven hours prior to the funeral services set for Thursday afternoon . The bills before the Legislature authorize criminal prosecution of individuals who may prosecute public works in Louisiana in violation of the section of the Federal Constitution guaranteeing to the States the powers which are not specifically vested in the Congress by the Constitution . Another bill authorizes suit by the State against the government to test its right to spend in Louisiana money from the Federal $4,000,000,000 Work Relief fund , and through other bureaus on works not belonging to the United States . Several of the other bills collectively give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city by legislative sessions . Allen Placed in Leadership . Meanwhile speculation developed over the possible division of the State 's power and , in lesser degree , over the fate of the Senator 's sharethe-wealth movement in national politics . Many political observers argued that the whole movement would collapse with his death . In the State , Senator Long 's supporters generally saw two possible ways to preserve the power he wielded from the inroads of antiLong minorities in New Orleans and other scattered sections of Louisiana . The first method , and the most likely one to he tried , since steps to that end were taken today , would be the establishment of a political oligarchy of the most powerful aides to Senator Long , with Governor 0 . K. Allen as the titular head of the machine . A second possibility is the less likely one of finding a leader bold enough and magnetic enough to take over the reins held by the dictator . At all events anti-Long forces made no attempt to conceal their satisfaction over the temporary confusion in the Long camp , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the defensive and threatens to destroy the machine from the inside . Controlled by the dictator , the forces under Long always followed the sound tactical principle of taking the aggressive side in any fight for the preservation of its gains . During the night , after hope for Senator Long 's life had been abandoned by physicians , the dictator 's chief lieutenants met in a hastily assembled conference . The conferees included Governor Allen , Seymour Weiss , close friend of the late Senator and treasurer of his organization ; Abe Shusman , director of the Levee Board ; Lieut . Gov . Noe , Speaker Allen Ellender of the House of Representatives , and George Wallace , Long 's secretary and legislative aide . Meanwhile , as a coroner 's jury was finding that Senator Long " died of a gunshot wound , " speculation continued to dwell on the motives which actuated the young physician who shot him down Sunday night , with a .32-calibre pistol of foreign make . One of the most interesting theories voiced in State administration circles was that the death of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of the single individual who executed the assassination . On the streets of Baton Rouge any passerby may hear tonight that Dr. Weiss , who was himself riddled by a hail of bullets from the submachine guns of the dictator 's bodyguard a moment after he had fired , was one of a group of men who entered into a pact and drew lots to determine who would execute the mission . This procedure became a common practice in the South during the ' Reconstruction period immediately , after the Civil War . Carpet-baggers1 and others who became too objet-I tionable in small communities were disposed of in the manner now advanced for the Senator 's death . Acquaintances of the young physician , who had studied in Vienna , Paris and New York and was considered an extraordinarily cultured member of the community , insisted , however , that he was too much of an individualist to act in concert with any one else in settling a personal grievance , fancied or real . His friends pointed out that he was never very talkative and did not associate with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to develop . His friends were principally doctors and his tastes mainly intellectual . At the hour set for the continuation of the inquiry into the young physician 's death , District Attorney John Fred Odom announced another postponement . The State , he Said , had not yet produced as witnesses the bodyguards who were present when the shooting took place and who are credited with having riddled the doctor 's body with more than twoscore bullets . The inquest for Weiss has been delayed three times . Two witnesses Monday morning described how State troopers in Senator Long 's bodyguard felled the young physician and poured upon him a rain of bullets as he lay on the marble floor . The meeting then was recessed until the same afternoon , when a lack of witnesses forced postponement of the inquest . At the funeral establishment where his body lies Senator Long was guarded in death by many of the same men who , at last unsuccessfully , watched over him in life . Twenty State troopers were lined before the establishment and kept away all but members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's family , who were at his bedside when he died , spent the day in retirement . Following the official death announcement Mrs. Long , the former Rose McConnell , whom the Senator married twenty-two years ago , and their three children , Rose , Russell and Palmer Reid , returned to their hotel . Later they motored back to their New Orleans home . Others in the family circle at the bedside were the Senator 's father , Huey P. Long Sr. , and two of his three brothers , Earl Long of New Orleans , and George Long- of Oklahoma . Julius Long of Shreveport , who has openly fought his brother 's political policies , was en route to the hospital at the time of the Senator 's death .                     