@@677850

Had to Beat Each Other to Keep Awake  --  Finally Drifted Ashore and Were Cared for at the Highlands . Half dead of exposure , hunger , and exhaustion , two young men drifted unto the Jersey shore at Point City Cove , about fifteen miles from Atlantic Highlands , In a disabled fifteen-foot sloop late yesterday afternoon , and after being revived ' at a near-by fisherman 's cottage , told a remarkable story of having drifted at . sea for over seventy-two hours in the face of the cold , rain , and stiff , wind of the last three days without food or drink . After being plied with hot coffee and gruel the young men told their story . They said they were Charles ' Losee of Ninety-third Street and Fifth Avenue , Brooklyn . and George Doff of Ninetysecond Street and . Battery Place , Brooklyn . They left their homes on Saturday for an afternoon of deep-sea fishing . Having chartered the fifteen-foot sloop Island Queen , they left Fort Hamilton at about noon , and proceeded to a point about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They intended to return home at nightfall , and so took no provisions - with them except a few sandwiches and a couple of bottles of ginger ale . While shifting their position late In the afternoon on Saturday a sudden squall struck them . They had been so occupied with their fishing that they had not noticed the storm 's approach . The wind blew a gale , and before they could reef their sails , the mast was snapped off short . A heavy sea sprang up immediately , and they had all they could do to keep the boat from being swamped . By cutting loose the wreckage and bailing for several hours they-succeeded in keeping the boat from filling , but by the time they had got out of this danger darkness had come on and they could not tell where they were . By the swell and the direction of the wind the nearest bearings that they could take told them that they were many miles off shore . They searched the boat and found that there was not a light of any description on board , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were in imminent danger of being blown further out to sea or run down by a larger boat , and so kept up a continual shouting all night long . Both young men were lightly clad , and suffered terribly during the night from exposure to the riin and sleet . When dawn broke they rigged up an improvised signal of distress with a piece of Losee 's shirt tied to the boat hook , and divided the day into watches , each taking turns at sleeping below . The fog was very thick all day Sunday , and it was impossible to see except a few yards around them . The rain and sleet continued , but they kept up their vigil all day long- . Their suffering during Monday had been terrible , but when darkness fell they repeated their tactics of the night before . both remaining on deck and shouting at intervals to warn any appreaching boat of their proximity . By dawn yesterday the two- men , almost frozen . had to kick and pound each other to keep from going tie sleep . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They say that it seemed that they never would get through Monday night , but dawn finally came and with it a clear sky . They could not see land on either side as far as their eyes could reach . They were evidently far out to sea , but the clearing of the air gave them new hope , for there was more chance of their signal being seen by a passing steamer . Early yesterday the wind shifted , and , although they did not know it , they were driven back to the coast . They were nearly exhausted when they finally sighted land , and did not have strength enough left to send up a shout of joy . They simply lay in the bottom of the boat until it struck on the shore , and they Were carried to the fisherman 's cottage half-unconscious . After resting a few hours and fresh clothing being given them . they left for their homes-in Brooklyn , where they had been given up as lost . 30 IN PERIL IN A GALE . Police Start on Early Morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge of Policemen Seymore and Mathews of the Canarsie Police Station , with a hastily gathered rescue party left Canarsie at 1:30 this morning in the face of a heavy gale to endeavor to take off thirty men from the sloop Eliza Rhodes , reported aground In Jamaica Bay off Rockaway Point . It was feared that the boat would break up or be blown out to sea before the rescuers could locate the disabled vessel . A message received from Barren Island said that two men attempted to leave the sloop in a small dory , but were capsized and just managed to reach a sand bar , where they are awaiting the rescuers . The Eliza Rhodes left Canarsie early yesterday morning with forty-two men on board for a day on the Jersey fishing banks . While on their way back to Canarsie the auxiliary engine broke down anjthe sloop was taken in tow by the sloop Dixie , also of Canarsie . They struck a fierce gale in the bay and the hawser parted . It looked as if the vessel would be blown out to sea when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dixie managed to take off twelve of the men and then the weather got so rough that she decided to go for assistance . She succeederiii putting in at Bergen Beach and gave the alarm . TURNBULL JEWELS GONE , Assistant District Attorney 's Sister Misses Diamonds and Pearls . A jewel case was stolen yesterday afternoon from the apartments of Miss Turnbull , a sister of Deputy Assistant District Attorney It J. Turnbull , in The New Weston , at Forty-ninth Street and Madison Avenue . Miss Turnbull was out shopping yesterday afternoon , and upon her return she missed the jewel case , which contained some valuable diamonds and pearls . She refrained from enlisting- the services of the police , thinking- that perhaps they had been- mislaid , but she was unable to find . them . Her brother declined to discuss the theft last night .                     