@@741250

In his entertaining and instructive book , The Intellectual Life , Mr. HAMERTON dwells with enthusiasm on the benefits of exercise in the open air . His praises , too , carry the conviction of experience , for in tha , pursuit of his profession he has himself tramped over a large part of England and Scotland , not to speak of France . Undoubtedly he is right . Brisk , vigorous , active , out-door life , is the surest road to health and strength . Without this wonderful refreshment , our ally of the free air and sunshine , exercise , - loses half its power for good . It is this which makes boating so beneficial , though in point of fact there are many exercises of the gymnasium better adapted to physical development ; and as we have before pointed out , some of the adjuncts of rowing are positively detrimental . But at least it brings men out of doors , gab Jove , as the Pagans had it , with a wise suggestiveness that Christians might not improperly profit by ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dumb-bells , the clubs , and parallel bars , of the gymnasium . These , indeed , are not to be despised . They have their part in the system of regeneration , and are useful to brace up and harden flaccid muscles , to tighten relaxed sinews . Even in weather like this , they need . not and ought not to be abandoned . It is a mistake to suppose that gymnastic exercises , in =Aeration , will result in physical discomfort , even on the hottest days . On the contrary , as all who have tried it know , a brisk turn of half an hour in the gymnasium , followed by a cold bath , is the best possible proteotion against tile malice of the dog star . The reaction leaves the gymnast cool and comfortable , while indolence , swinging in hammocks , fortified with fans , and swallowing cooling drinks , only gets hotter and hotter . If every man who can afford the time  --  and the busiest would find it possible with a little management  --  would make it an unvarying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some wellappointed gymnasium , dyspepsia would have fewer victims , and the coming generation would be incomparably a stronger and a handsomer race . Still , this is not everything , since , unluckily , most of our gymnasiums are built indoors . It is our misfortune that neither our climate nor our manners will permit that invigorating exposure to all the winds of heaven which made the benefit and the glory of the Greek paloestra . Yet it seems as though we failed to make use of even such opportunities as custom and climate have left us . For-example , there is talk of a grand athletic tournament to be held next Winter by the pupils of the various gymnasiums in this City and Brooklyn . The idea is a good one ; but where is the meeting to be hold G In the Academy of Music , of all places in the world ! This is a very great mistake . If the young gentlemen who are managing this very praiseworthy enterprise really wish to make the most of it , either as a spectacle or as an enticement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the season they have set , and hold their tournament in Autumn , and in the open air . Framed in a setting of verdant slopes , blue skies , and waving woods , relieved with a few white tents , and a thousand varying and . brilliant costumes , their leapings and turnings and tumblings will lose , they may rest assured , none of their attractiveness , and , under proper auspices and favoring weather , may help to make a spectacle worthy of remembrance .                     