@@703950

Official Referees Favored Proposal to Abolish Office Regarded As Step in Wrong Direction To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is unfortunate that so many voters of this State become excitedly worked up about trivial details of legislation and yet pay only casual attention to proposed laws which go to the very foundations of our judicial system . This lack of the sense of political proportion is being shown strikingly in the seeming unconcern of the electorate in the pending proposal to abolish the office of official referee in our civil courts of record . Few lay citizens know or seek the knowledge that the motive of this proposal is a return to the antiquated system , invented in the days of Boss Tweed , of permitting justices of the Supreme Court to pay political debts by doling out to the elect , many of whom are legal nobodies , fat references wherein suitors are mulcted of extortionate fees , and the judicial procedure of the State is turned into an elaborate monopoly of patronage . The present official referee/5 now ably functioning in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been retired from the regular bench because of the silly superstition still adopted as New York law that a learned and upright judge becomes automatically an incompetent on the day he reaches the alleged biblical age limit of 70 years . This silly idea is blamed on Moses , who did not begin his great life work until he was 80 , and led his people for twoscore years thereafter . This superstition still obtains in this State notwithstanding that Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes served brilliantly on the bench of the United States Supreme Court when he was past 90 ; and only recently Justice Brandeis , efficient and faithful to the last minute , retired from the same court at the age of 83 . According to the same fatuous fallacy , the present Chief Justice of our nation 's highest tribunal of law , a jurist recognized by all the other jurists of the entire world as one of the greatest judges now living , has been an ncompetent for the past seven years . That the group of distinguished exjudges now official referees have and are performing their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judicature . But even with such able assistance the trial calendars of our courts are disgracefully behind , and delay is still daily a denial of justice in our civil courts . I dread to think of what would happen to the trial calendars if the official referee system were abolished . Of course we could rely on the professional selecters of judicial candidates to pad the bench with another dozen of their favorites , but that would hardly make for an increase of efficiency or an increase of public respect for the judiciary . After many years of observation at home and abroad of official referees and masters in chancery I am thoroughly convinced that no better method of bringing our trial calendars reasonably up to date can he devised until we recover from the Mosaic complex and allow a judge of proven ability and character to remain on the bench until the completion of the term for which the people have elected him despite the incidental fact that his seventieth birthday has arrived . If the lay voters of this State who take too little interest in the machinery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present proposal to abolish the official referees , there would be small danger of the latest move of our professionals in the game of politics putting over this destructive scheme . HYACINTHE RINGROsE . Brooklyn , April 30 , 1939 . Early Camouflage Experiments To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YOGIC TIMES : Referring to the article in THE TIMES recently headed " Sees Camouflage Vital in Warfare , " the first paragraph of which reads : " With the dark clouds of war growing ever blacker , the matter of camouflage for defense is brought to the attention of British authorities by a scientific correspondent of The London Times , with some constructive suggestions based on nature 's own ways of rendering animals , birds and reptiles invisible or indistinguishable in certain conditions . " This discovery was made by Abbott Thayer and described in his and his son 's book , " Concealing Coloration in the Animal Kingdom . " He visited London in 189P and described it before the London Zoological Society at a time when British scientists had little respect for American scientists , and in consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inability to express himself clearly , he was severely ridiculed . The result was that he offered to demonstrate his discovery the following day at the London Zoological Gardens in Regents Park . On the lawn he placed two oblong " dummy " objects , one completely covered with grass clipped from the lawn , the other with grass only on its sides and ends and the undersurface painted light and the back dark color . The painted one could not be seen at the same distance at which the grass-covered one was plainly visible . Going then to the balcony of the Elephant House , Mr. Thayer placed a screen of gray cloth against the wall and against it placed two more dummies , each covered with the same piece of cloth . One had its top and underside painted dark and light . Again at about thirty feet the painted one was invisible , while the other was plainly visible . The days of animosity between American and British scientists , I am pleased to say , are long past and the two work in hearty cooperation . J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1939 . Curtailing Higher Education To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Board of Estimate has just passed the Mayor 's budget , slicing 20 per cent off the requested appropriation for the city colleges , and this in spite of an increase in the student body . This cut marks the first step in the curtailment of free higher education . At City , Hunter , Brooklyn and Queens Colleges economies will have to be made . The possible choices now being weighed include : ( 1 ) A 40 per cent reduction in the size of the entering class ; ( 2 ) a fee of $50 per term per student ; ( 3 ) reduction in faculty salaries ; ( 4 ) abolition of Summer sessions ; ( 5 ) curtailment of elective courses ; ( 6 ) larger classes ; ( 7 ) disregard of necessary improvements . The city colleges have proved a giltedged investment for New York City . And yet the Board of Estimate has reduced its appropriation for education and increased its appropriation for less important departments . BERNARD @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Defense of Osteopaths Exception Is Taken to Statements at Medical Society Meeting To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In THE TIMES 'S report of the meeting of the Medical Society of the State of New York at Syracuse was a statement by Dr. James F. Rooney of Albany on the Milmoe Osteopathic Bill . There were some grave errors in that statement . Dr. Rooney is reported as having said in effect that out of the 480 osteopaths in the State only about forty had ever qualified for licenses by passing examinations , and that more than 400 had received licenses " by legislative fiat " after training that was not equivalent to that received by medical students in their first year . The Bulletin of . the University of the State of New York dated April 1 , 1938 , lists 439 osteopathic physicians in practice in . the State on that date . The Medical Unity Bill was passed by the Legislature of 1907 and signed by Governor Hughes . Under its provisions 412 osteopathic physicians were granted licenses without examination . I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , and at the , request of the State Education Department aided them in collecting and verifying the data . Dr. Rooney refers to that licensing fact as licensing " by legislative fiat , " and leaves readers to infer by contrast that all M. D. 's practicing in the State at that time had taken difficult and searching examinations before being admitted to practice . I wonder if he forgot that from 1890 , when the medical examining boards were first created in this State , to 1907 , the date the 412 osteopathic physicians were licensed without examinations , there had been 3,205 M. D. 's licensed without examinations . The college course required from 1890 to 1896 was three years , varying from five to six months each . The course was made four years of six months each in 1896 , so that these 3,205 M. D. 's had courses varying from fifteen to twenty-four months , whereas every one of the 412 osteopathic physicians had minimum courses of twenty months . These figures are taken from the legislative campaign survey made in 1907 by Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unity Bill of that year became a law , was appointed by the Board of Regents as the osteopathic member of the State Medical Examining Board and who served on that board until 1925 . In this connection it may be of further interest that of the 412 osteopathic physicians licensed in 1907 , without examination , only 115 are practicing in this State today . I have no idea how many of the 3,205 M. D. 's who were licensed without examination from 1890 to 1907 are still in practice . Dr. Rooney 's statement that only about forty osteopathic physicians ever qualified for licenses by passing examinations is silly . Dr. Albert W. Bailey , president of the New York State Osteopathic Society , who has collected the most recent data relative to the Milirloe Osteopathic Bill , told me that 439 osteopathic physicians have been licensed in this State since 1907 on the basis of State board examinations . How many of these 439 are still practicing I do n't know . It is interesting that all of the M. D. 's who have received licenses since 1907 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken the same examinations from the same printed lists of questions on anatomy , physiology , hygiene , surgery , obstetrics and gynecology , pathology , bacteriology and diagnosis , and have also taken a part of those examinations under an osteopathic physician as a member of the State Medical Examining Board . GEORGE W. RILEY , Past President , American Osteopathic Association . New York , April 26 , 1939 , Experiment in Dance Music TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : While playing at one of our dance engagements last week we decided to try an experiment and play a Viennese waltz in its original tempo . The manager of the ballroom happened to be close to the bandstand and he shook his head , indicating that such a number would be booed by the thousands of young , collegiate , jitterbug dancers present . However , the band went through with the unusual assignment . The couples continued dancing and at the end ? of the number spontaneously broke into a round of enthusiastic applause . We were stunned and decided to try another Viennese waltz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough , the youthful audience responded in the dame manner . As far as I am concerned , this demonstration , put on by an otherwise shagging , jitterbug crowd , is another indication that a sweet , smooth tune has the , same appeal today that it had when swing was unknown . I believe this is further proof that awing music is slowly but surely losing its popularity and form and that it will eventually evolve into a more danceable , melodious type of music . GRAY GORDON . New York , April 26 , 1939.                     