@@719850

Mr. Adams will depart  --  September 1 or the Labor Day weekend . The White House declined comment on two such reports Saturday . These contrary views on what Mr. Eisenhower 's aide will do reflect what each side would like Mr. Adams to do . G.O.P. politicians , of course , figure Mr. Adams is a liability to the party in his job while his friends at the White House concede their assessment of the situation may be colored by personal loyalty to their chief . But friends and foes of Mr. Adams agree on one thing : Nobody but he knows for sure just what is going on in his mind , except perhaps th4 President . And no matter what decision Mr. Adams has made for now , both sides agree , the case is far from closed . Goldfine on Stand Tomorrow Mr. Goldfine , New England textile executive and long-time friend of Mr. Adams , is slated to resume his testimony tomorrow before the Special House Commerce subcommittee investigating whether Federal agencies took it easy on Mr. Goldfine 's companies in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ witness ' friendship with Mr. Adams and others in high places .. Mr. Goldfine is expected to disclose by tomorrow a key decision in the cue  --  whether to continue to insist questions by the Harris subcommittee on his financial dealings are n't pertinent ; or to agree to answer the queries . Should the Boston businessman , under subpoena to testify tomorrow , again balk. odds are the panel will recommend he be charged with contempt of Congress . Whatever he does , it will have an important bearing on the controversy . As Commerce Subcommittee Chairman Harris ( D .. Ark. ) said , continued silence would leave " the implications . . . that there must be something about it they do n't want to make public . " If this happens , and a contempt charge is voted . it would be hard for Mr. Goldfine to escape bad publicity , at the least . And as his reputation is damaged , so is that of his friend . Mr. Adams , however right or wrong the merits of Mr. Goldfine 's Cane . On Friday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than re0cf , eo0 from his  --  ffnufraecomits , ' Osefiene Mr. Harris ' orders that he respond . The subconimittee contends the questions are relevant because the panel wants to find out whether the Securities and Exchange Commission was to normal at present . Until he finished his testimony before the House committee on his relations with Mr. Goldfine , the President 's staff operated amid contusion and their work slowed down . Since then , staff members insist , it 's been " business as usual . " Some of his colleagues say their relations with Mr. Eisenhower 's chief of staff are no different now than what they were before ' the Adams-Goldfine episode began . Others , while claiming they feel no constraint in their dealings with Mr. Adams . admit to s. self.con. aciousness in his presence . " You sort of look at him more closely , " is the way one associate puts it . Talks , but No Gossip Mr. Adams himself has discussed the case at the staff meetings he holds two or three times a week and in conferences with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White House aide says , the former New Hampshire governor " comments on specific events in the case , such as the testimony before the committee . There 's no ' thoughts while shaving talk , ' no Idle gossiping on his troubles or What he expects to do . " The Presidential Assistant , however , gets more philosophical in chats with individuals . Says one who has discussed the affair ire . quently with him . " He shrugs the whole thing off and does n't think he did anything wrong . He has n't said so specificially but he does n't sound like a man who has any intention of leaving . " However , the campaign to get Mr. Adams to resign is almost certain to pick up again soon . Even If House investigators come up with no more damaging evidence against him , Republican candidates are expected to take out again for Mr. Adams ' hide otice Congress quits and the fall election campaign begins . " You just ca n't keep the pressure going full blast all the time , " notes a G.O.P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have called on Adams to quit lately , but you have n't heard anybody speaking out for him either . " The near-unanimous feeling among people outside the White House that Mr. Adams u-Ill go , sooner or later , is reminiscent of last win . ter 's drive to oust Agriculture Secretary Benton by influential Republicans , including . so eherhehaotAmmeOier. , aa ? ms himself . Ottani &; then based the prediction of Mr. Benson 's departure not on any known decision , but on the logic of politics . Recalling that unsuccessful attempt to unload an alleged Administration political Hability , a White House official reflects , " you just ca n't count on Eisenhower to follow the logic of politics . " Actually , Mr. Adams ' friends at the White House feel it would be better politics for him to stay . " No matter what reason he gave for quitting , " says an Eisenhower aide . " if he left it would be taken as an admission of wrongdoing . " Several Republican lawmakers , it may be noted , now figure it does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the damage has already been done . In any case , White House officials who three weeks ago at least discussed the possibility of Mr. Adams resigning now say they would be surprised , even shocked , if he left . They figure the tide is switching towards Mr. Adams  --  or at least away from his accusers . Other Presidential aides concede that as Mr. Goldfine 's reputation is tarnished , Mr. Adams suffers , too . But the generally-held belief at the White House is that committee actions In recent days and weeks , such as the " bugging " of Mr. Goldfine 's hotel room . lessened the damage to the President 's top assistant .                     