@@734350

After a night of rocket and artillery exchanges between the army and Palestinian guerrillas , the Israeli Cabinet today reaffirmed the Government 's policy of conducting strikes in southern Lebanon despite an attempt by the United Nations to arrange a cease-fire there . Aryeh Naor , the Cabinet spokesman , said after the ministers ' weekly meeting : " We will continue to strike . Nothing has influenced our position to change it . " Question of Conflict Asked whether today 's decision by the Israeli Cabinet to continue strikes was contrary to the terms of the cease-fire , a United Nations spokesman in Jerusalem , Hugo Rocha , explained : " It was never arranged as a formal cease-fire . There were the usual contacts with local leaders here and in New York , but there was no formal agreement for a cease-fire . There were appeals to the parties to stop the fighting , but we ca n't speak of a formal cease-fire . " In Beirut , a United Nations spokesman said a cease-fire , agreed to separately with Israeli Defense Forces , their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holding about 15 hours after it went into effect . But the Lebanese radio said " intermittent shelling " continued in different parts of the south . In Washington , Robert S. Strauss , the special Middle East negotiator , hinted that the United States would try to arrange a truce in the fighting . Page A5 . Israel has contended that it must strike the guerrillas in southern Lebanon to keep them from attacking Israeli civilians . The Beirut Government has reported many civilian casualties from Israel 's shelling and air attacks . The United Nations peacekeeping force in Lebanon , which has suffered 3 killed and 10 wounded in attacks by Palestinians or leftists in recent days , arranged a fragile cease-fire yesterday , which held for several hours , and another today , which Israel said was broken this morning by Palestinian shelling of Christian and Moslem villages along Lebanon 's southern border . Intensive shelling of two towns , Klea and Merj ' Uyun , was said to be continuing tonight . Maj. Saari Haddad , a Lebanese who commands a 2,000-man rightwing militia force , told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early morning . " It 's very heavy and very quick also , from many guns at the same time , " he said . " What kind of cease-fire is this ? " Major Haddad said he had not been approached by the United Nations about a halt in the fighting . Last night , an Israeli military spokesman reported , Soviet-made rockets hit several Israeli settlements near the border . Two hit the town of Qiryat Shemona , one destroying the top floor of an empty apartment house . Two persons were reported slightly injured in the attacks , and there was considerable property damage . Israeli gunners opened up with artillery in return . The fighting in southern Lebanon , which has been simmering for years , intensified last week when Palestinian units north of the Litani River and Israeli and right-wing Lebanese militiamen along the border exchanged heavy barrages of artillery fire . Israeli and militia artillery fire was reported to have reduced part of Tyre to ruins , killing at least two persons . Thursday night , a patrol of eight United Nations soldiers from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a United Nations spokesman said . Three Fijians were killed , and one was seriously wounded . The United Nations tried to get all sides to stop fighting , and a tentative halt took effect at noon yesterday . The United Nations reported militia shelling of Palestinian bases this morning followed by heavy Palestinian shelling tonight . Israeli military officials contend that Palestinians have used the United Nations " umbrella " to infiltrate the area north of the militia-held border zone . Last month the Israeli military accused the United Nations forces of cooperating with the terrorists and failing to use force against them ; the United Nations rules provide for the use of force in self-defense only . Gen. Emmanuel A. Erskine , who commands the United Nations force , said in an interview broadcast by Israeli radio today that Palestinians and Lebanese leftists were making serious attempts to infiltrate the area held by his troops . He said of the Palestinians and Lebanese leftists , " I think we have between 200 and 250 armed , uniformed individuals in the area that we ourselves can identify . " But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every Tom , Dick and Harry has a weapon . I would n't think there is any serious increase in those who are in the area , but I would admit there are serious attempts to get into the area . "                     