@@683350

The National Security League has received replies from most of the German-American societies from which it sought declarations of opposition to Germany and loyalty to the United Rtn.f est in the war . Some of these associations did not go beyond a formal acknowledgment of the receipt of the league 's request . Some resented it as " an insult " or as " impertinent . " They assumed that their loyalty was doubted . But any quantity of . Amerlean societies have spontaneously affirmed their loyalty . So now do some of the German-American societies , or say that they did so before the request was received . Officers of two Southern State German-American Alliances report that these dissolved as soon as war was declared , because , as the President of one of them writes , " the " majority of the members were all " good American citizens , and they did " not believe the association should " continue . " On the whole , considering the natural sensitiveness of loyal Americans of German descent , the self-importance of the official mind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clubs , and the opportunity . of snubbing strange inquirers , the responses and the silences of these German-American organizations are about what might have been expected . We see multitudes of Americans of German origin enlisting , supporting the draft , acting as the patriotic Americans of every strain ought to act . If the officers of any of the German-American societies are of another mind , they are not representative German-Americans . When we come to the German-language press , we have to wonder whom , in this country , it represents . The President of the German-American Alliance of Tennessee writes that many of its members have stopped their subscriptions to such papers . It was a natural thing for loyal men to do . Much of the German-language press in this country has been and is steadily pro-German . It has been eager for German victory . It throws cold water on the American cause and the American preparations for war . It abuses and sneers at the Allies , especially England . - Now that the German plan of world-dominion is hopeless , the German-language press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German peace , for the status quo ante , for the salvage of as much as la possible of . the German hopes . A peace victorious for democracy and ending the German terror to the world is not to the mind of most of the German-language papers . By direction and indirection , by suppression of the truth , innuendo , in many ways it seeks to bolster up Germany . In the midst of a war with Germany , this is a curious attitude , an attitude that can hardly continue . Is the German-language press loyal ? That is a matter of public interest . It is to be regretted that the National Security League his put the " Confession of Faith " to which it asks the German-American papers to subscribe in language which , considering the persons to whom it is addressed , seems superfluously harsh and offensive . None the less , there is not an article in it to which any loyal American , of whatever descent , should not be able to say Amen ! We shall await the answers with interest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the German-language newspapers may serve , in some cities , as it did in Cincinnati , to check , at least for a time , their dithyrambic fervor for Germany                     