@@697450

Chief Magistrate Joseph E. Corrigan served notice upon the underworld yesterday that he would brook no interference with the prosecution of two policemen accused of fabricating evidence against two young women whom they had arrested on immorality charges . Soon afterward it became known that Louis Taube , alias " The Dove , " an important witness in the Appellate Division 's investigations into a possible connection between the vice rings and the magistrates ' courts , was mysteriously missing , although supposedly under police protection . These two developments tended Co divert interest in the judiciary Inquiries from the investigation the extraordinary grand jury is conducting into the appointment of former Magistrate George F. Ewald and the nomination and election of Judge Amedeo A. Bertini of General Sessions . The grand jury , which was not in session yesterday , will convene this morning to examine five witnesses who have been subpoenaed . They are Charles F. Kerrigan , assistant to Mayor Walker ; Barrett Carmody , secretary to Supreme Court Justice Phenix Ingraham ; Charles S. Hand , former secretary to the Mayor and now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Twenty-third Assembly District , and John J. Meyer , a member of the Board of Examining Plumbers and one of the signers of the letter to Mayor Walker endorsing Ewald 's candidacy . Ball of Policemen Increased . Magistrate Corrigan expressed his defiance of the underworld from the bench in his court at 300 Mulberry Street at a hearing for Patrolman Leigh Halpern and Daniel Sullivan of Inspector Patrick S. McCormick 's staff and assigned to the Police Department 's vice squad . As an earnest of his sincerity , Magistrate Corrigan held the two policemen for the grand jury on charges of perjury , and increased their bail from $1,000 to $5,000 . Declaring that his warning to interested persons to " keep hands off " the policemen 's case , delivered at their first arraignment , had been disregarded , Magistrate Corrigan said he was " tired of the innuendo and conspiracy " with which the case apparently was enmeshed . Then he added : " Witnesses say they have had telephone calls from New Jersey from persons calling themselves gangsters and even some purporting to come from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I 'm tired of it and I mean to see it through . " The magistrate 's words were received enthusiastically by a dozen or more representatives of women 's organizations which have interested themselves in the case . Among those who congratulated Magistrate Corrigan for his stand were three women ' lawyers , Ruth Lewinson , Olive Stott Gabriel and Dr. Anna Hochfelder , representing the New York City Federation of Women 's Clubs . Miss Rose Davies and Miss Marian Godfrey , the two night-club hostesses arrested last June by Halpern and Sullivan and e subsequntly cleared of . immorality charges , both took the witness stand against the accused 1 policemen . Miss Davies identified Rogues ' Gallery photographs of " Marty " Booth and Harry Gibson as likenesses of the " men , who got away . " The witness said she had heard the two men remark that they had " $200 to square it . " " Did they square it ? " demanded Terence , attorney for the policemen . " I do n't know , " said Miss Davies . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " the lawyer asked . " No , " replied Miss Davies , " but they let the : two men go . " - Sullivan and Halpern have been questioned at length by Isidor Kresel , special counsel to Samuel Seabury , the referee " appointed by the Appellate Division to investigate magistrates ' courts . Mr. Kresel is anxious also , it is understood , to apprehend Gibson and Booth , both former convicts , who he believes were acting as decoys for the vice ring which is said to have preyed upon young women with the aid of policemen , bail bondsmen , court attaches and paid informers of the Police Department . " The Dove , " was one of the last group . He was regarded by Mr. Kresel as one of his most important witnesses and his disappearance admittedly is a serious blow to the inquiry . The missing witness , who at each appearance before Mr. Kresel , threw his overcoat over his head to protect his features from newspaper cameras , had told his questioners several times that the mere mention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life . Because of " the Dove 's " fear of reprisals , Mr. Kresel had arranged to give him police protection at the midtown hotel where he was . said . to live . Whether the ' guard was continued after the first few days could not be determined yesterday . The first intimation Mr. Kresel had that the important ' underworld witness was gone came several days ago when he failed to answer a subpoena for- further examination . Throughout the day members of Mr. Kresel 's staff were busy interviewing employes of hotels , who appeared in a steady stream bringing ledgers and documents . It was understood all were questioned about their knowledge of the Ben Miller Association , of which the hotels they represented were alleged to have been members . At the same time it became known that Mr. Kresel intends to investigate the conduct of Magistrate Francis X. since his elevation to the bench . The magistrate has been the target of attacks by Norman Thomas , Socialist leader , and an investigation into his affairs by the Bar Association is being held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation . With the special grand Jury in recess , the most important development of the day in the Ewald case was the announcement of Supreme Court Justice Philip J. McCook that the trial of former Magistrate Ewald and his wife , Bertha , indicted for paying Martin J. Healy , a Tammany district-leader , $10.000 for his appointment , will start Dec. 8 . Healy and Thomas T. Tommaney , a henchman , are scheduled to go to trial Nor . 17 for accepting the bribe . While the trial is expected to consume little more than a week , Justice McCook explained that Hiram C. Todd , Special Assistant Attorney General , who will prosecute- the indictments , will be engaged in the New Jersey Lighterage case in Boston , the first week in December .                     