@@711050

The most-discussed Republican ticket in the event of a convention deadlock  --  that of Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg and former Gov . Harold E. Stassen  --  raises two questions , both of which will have to be answered affirmatively if such a combination is to have any real prospect of being brought into being . The questions which are most often encountered , and which sometimes produce different answers from Republican leaders who count themselves pretty much in the know , are : Will Senator Vandenberg accept the presidential nomination despite the fact that he really does not want to run for the Rresidency ? Will Mr. Stassen accept the vice - presidential nomination despite the fact that he really wants to run for the Presidency ? , Neither has thus far answered the question explicitly on the record . But I think that their decisions are implicit in their words and in their actions , and that the answer is that each would accept . A A A I do not want to give the impression that I have inside knowledge of the plans or intentions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorized to give an answer indirectly which neither Mr. Vandenberg nor Mr. Stassen is ready to give directly. ? I simply mean that the circumstantial evidence is considerable , and that it is thus far all on the affirmative side . Everyone who knows the Senator Vandenberg of today and who realizes the extent to which he has dedicated himself to his work as Chairman of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee is persuaded that his real ? choice  --  his honest and considered choice  --  is to retain his strategic Senatorship and forego both the glories and the heartaches of the Presidency . Mr. Vandenberg has said , in such direct and simple words that even Washington political writers hardly dare to pretend they doubt him , that he does not wish the Republican presidential nomination , that he will not seek it , that he does not consider a " draft " at all probable , that he will not connive to bring about any draft , and that he will not permit his friends so to connive if he can prevent them . So far , he has acted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Michigan friends from pledging his home State delegation behind his name . But the Senator has made one other statement , and it is this : " Of course , I would yield to a spontaneous di-aft ( if that hypothesis must be included ) because I do not believe any citizen has a right to deny his service to his country if , and when , his service is demanded . " It is the very honesty and dignity of this statement which contributes to causing many of us to feel sure that Mr. Vandenberg means it when he says that he does not wish , and will not seek , the nomination . But it also means  --  and he has done or said nothing to alter it  --  that if the Philadelphia convention , unable to agree on one of the candidates who really want the nomination , unitedly turned to Senator Vandenberg and what he stands for in the Dowling- 0 New York Herald ' tribune Not Going Ashore nation and in the Party , he would accept . The judgment of most correspondents is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he does not wish the nomination and that he will not go back on his statement that , under honorable circumstances , he would accept the nomination without seeking it . A A A What about Mr. Stassen ? Would he accept second place ? At his press conferences across the country and at his off-the-record sesqions with Republican leaders , he is frequently asked : " If you are not nominated for President , will you accept the nomination for Vice-President ? " He uses different words to answer on different occasions , but his replies add up to this : Yes , under certain conditions . Here is the way he answered when the issue arose in New Hampshire last week : " I am running for the nomination for President on the Republican ticket . Period . However , what really matters is the issues , not what happens to any one man . I shall be doing my part in the campaign , whether as candidate for President or Vice-President or as precinct captain . " That seems to me to add up to : Yes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions reasonably clear . He has said he would n't run with Governor Dewey . His direct challenge to Senator Taft in the Ohio ? primary makes a Taft-Stassen ticket still more improbable . There would have to be a Party platform which did n't do violence to his middle-road , world-. minded views . All of which suggests that there is nothing to make a Vandenberg-Stassen ticket impossible to attain under , the right circumstances .                     