@@668850

Here ' s a bit of good news for Midwest farmers : Farmland values increased again in the second quarter of this year following a nominal increase in the first quarter . This is another important signal that the nation ' s most important agricultural sector is recovering from a five-year economic recession . Except for a brief rise in early 1983 , the increase in Midwest land values in the first half of this year marks the first signs of a firming of land values since the downturn that began in 1981 . This means that farmers and other land owners may be regaining equity and borrowing power on their farms . The latest report on Midwest land values follows a recent projection by the U.S. Department of Agriculture that farm income may reach record highs this year . The report on land values comes from the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago in its quarterly survey of 535 Midwest agricultural banks . Most of the bankers , representing the Seventh Federal Reserve District , said they expect Midwest land values to remain stable in the current quarter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to predict , an increasing proportion of the agricultural bankers are looking for land values to hold stable or rise further this summer , " said the report by Gary Benjamin , economist and vice president of the Chicago bank . " In the most recent survey , 13 percent of the bankers projected an increase for the current quarter , while only 3 percent anticipated a decline . " The remaining 84 percent of the bankers expect land values to be stable . " Compared to bankers ' views in similar surveys over the past several years , these proportions clearly denote a strengthening consensus that the downturn in land values has ended , at least for the near term . At the same time , however , the proportions also exhibit considerable skepticism among bankers about expectations of a strong rebound in farmland values . " The second quarter report covered land values in the Seventh Federal Reserve District . That includes all of Iowa and lower Michigan , roughly the northern halves of Illinois and Indiana , and the lower three-fifths of Wisconsin . For the district as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the second quarter over the first quarter . Despite the increase , district land values at the end of June were still 4 percent below those of a year ago and 47 percent below the 1981 peak . The biggest second quarter increases were registered in the district portion of Indiana , where values were up 3 percent . Compared with the first quarter , they were up 2 percent in Iowa , 1 percent in Illinois and Wisconsin , but showed no increase in Michigan . " The firming in farmland values stems largely from improved income returns to land ownership , " the bank ' s report said . " This has become particularly apparent following recent , and substantive , upward revisions in the U.S. Department of Agriculture ' s estimates of farm sector income for 1985 through 1987 . " Factoring the revised estimates into the residual income return to farm sector assets and equity reveals a more favorable picture for farmland than had been thought the case just a few months ago . Coupled with past declines in asset and equity values , the revisions indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equity last year slightly exceeded past norms . " The report noted that the second quarter increase in land values occurred despite an upturn in farm mortgage interest rates charged by District banks.                     