@@676350

It is the Paris Temps that warns M. COMBES that he must not turn the Concordat into a " Discordat . " But all the most weighty and conservative organs of French opinion seem to agree with it that M. COMBES has pushed the contest between the republic and the Vatican to a length to which the best French opinion will hardly sustain him in going . The enforcement of the law against " the congregations " seemed to most disinterested persons , inside as well as outside of France , to have been marked by needless bitterness and ferocity . It had , in fact , all the marks of what may be called an anti-crusade . But the question involved in those operations is : -. mall compared with the consequences which would , or at all events which might follow , from a " denunciation " of the agreement approved by NAPOLEON under which Church and State have got on fairly well together in France for a hundred years . It seems that , with a moderate measure of prudence and conciliation on each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly mankind at large will not believe that the Vatican , while it is occupied by the present Pontiff , is likely to fall in these qualities . When M. COMBES insists that , as he does not desire priests and Bishops , in part supported by the State , but appointed from Rome , to be partisans of the republic itself , and much less of any administration of it , so ' neither will he suffer them to become partisans against either , he is on entirely safe ground . But when he- seems to insist that the power to nominate Bishops , on the part of the Government which helps to pay them , is the gist of the appointment , and that -. he " advice and consent " of the Vatican shall be merely formal , he seems to show a very different understanding of the Concordat from that in accordance with which it has been administered during a century . To an Ainerican the natural solution of the French difficulty would be the complete separation of Church and State which prevails in this country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the French Way of looking at these things is so different from ours that , although this solution has been proposed in France , neither the representatives of the State nor those of the Church would be likely to be satisfied with it . Conservative Frenchmen naturally dread any disturbance of a subject so sure to arouse passion . If M. CUM BES had more than he has exhibited of this temper it might , for the rime. be the worse for his Government . At least the ' , Extreme Left " would try to make it difficult for him . But it seems that it might be better for both State and Church in France .                     