@@732950

Lieut Gen Olusegun Obasanjo , the Nigerian head of state , today told Andrew Young , the visiting United States representative to the United Nations , that the United States should play a vital role in oringmg peace and change to southern Africa Mr. Young said that his talks with about 20 African leaders had all had this corn . mon theme " What they 've said is they want the United States glyph ed , " Mr Young said He said that he had been " very careful not to commit the United States to anything , " and he emphasized that he was not sure if the . nvohement would be " In the wings " or at center stage The Nigerian leader and the Amencan met for over three hours in talks that were descnbed by both sides as unusually friendly and frank and as opening up a new era of Nigerian-American cooperation under the Carter Administration For Mr Young , on the final leg of a 10-day tnp through Africa , it was a diplomatic breakthrough . Until now Nigena , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spent more than $50 million to support liberation movements in the south , has been deeply suspicious of American involvement there Afterward Mr Young said that he might recommend convening a multinational conference on Rhodesia It would include representatives of the United States , Britam , Nigeria , Zaire , the five " front-line " black African states bordering Rhodesia and the Rhodesian black nationalists but would exclude the white minority Rhodesian Government of Prime Minister Ian 0 . Smith . The Intent , he said , would be to unify the feuding black nationalist factions and to develop a common approach to dealing with the Smith Government . " If you can get all these guys in one place , united on something , it would be very hard for Smith and Vorster to buck , " he said , referring to Prune Minister John Vorster of South Africa . Mr Young implied that if his proposal for a conference was backed by Wash.ngton , he would discuss it with British officials during a stopover in London tomorrow on his way home Mr. Young 's meeting with General Obasanjo , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was followed by a brief joint news conference . General Obasanjo rarely holds news conferences , and his willingness to appear with Mr. Young underlined the significance that the Nigerians placed upon the session . Donald Easum , the American Ambassador to Nigeria . who participated in the discussion , said that it was " the most interesting and perhaps the most important conversation of this nature I 've had in 23 years in the Foreign Service . " General Obasanjo described the talks in highly favorable terms . " Generally , we agreed on what should be our courses of action , our methods of approach , our tactics , " he said referring to policy on southern Africa . He did not go into specifics Noting that the Smith Government had been intransigent on the issue of majority rule until the United States had " stepped in " to apply pressure , he added : " It stands to reason that to be able to achieve any success through negotiations in solving the problem of Zimbabwe . America has to be heavily involved . " Zimbabwe is the black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago Nigeria , which split with the United States over the Angolan civil war , condemned the peace proposals advanced by former Secretary of States Henry A. Kissinger and became an advocate of armed struggle . Without abandoning that position today , General Obasonjo emphasized " achieving objectives without creating a state that would be destroyed completely in battle . " The Nigerian leader was also said to have expressed concern over possible strife in Rhodesia between rival black nationalists and over a possible relaxation of American pressure on South Africa to transfer South-West Africa , also known as Namable , to majority rule Cuban troops are still stationed in Angola  --  where they helped a nationalist group win the civil war  --  only because South Africa is supporting a rebel Angolan faction and their removal could be easily negotiated . General Obasanjo was said to have remarked . " At one point he said the presence of Cuban troops in Angola was kind of a stain , a blemish on black Africa , and that Africans should have been able to handle that situation alone , " Mr Young said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unmilitant " tone of the Nigerians " Nigeria has the reputation of being the big bad boy of Africa and traditionally anti-United States , " he continued . " I frankly expected to receive a short lecture , if not a long one , on the past sins of the United States in Africa "                     