@@680050

It has been a very bad day for Col , Roosevelt . If he is at all sensitive he will be nursing bruised feelings to-night . The Republican National Committee took up the contests brought from Indiana this afternoon , and with the full con. sent and acquiescence of every Roosevelt member on the committee seated four delegates at large pledged to President Taft . Eight Taft district delegates were then seated by unanimous vote of the committee members present , except in one instance , the Thirteenth District . The Taft delegates won there , too , by a vote of 36 to 14 . President Taft Is twelve delegates to the good as the result of the contest hearings to-day . That in itself is regarded as bad enough , for the Colonel ' needs virtually every contested delegate to make a favorable showing in the con ' vention . But It is not the worst feature of the day 's developments from the point of view of Col , Roosevelt and his cam ' raign managers . It is openly admitted that Col. Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than at any time since the Republican National Committee began its sittings . It will be remembered that it was the primaries and subsetinentdoings at the Stite fb.at first ca-used the Colonel to raise the cry of fraud and denounce President Taft as an accomplice of political tricksters . What the Colonel said on that occasion was too strong to be easily forgotten . It happens to be a matter of indelible record . Yet , when the Indiana contests were brought up to-day it was on the motion of a Roosevelt man that the National Committee voted unanimously to seat the four Taft delegates , at large who , according to the Colonel 's version , had been fradulently elected . ' The Taft campaign managers have additional reason to be jubilant to-night for in the course of the discussion before the National Committee in the Indiana cases two of the Colonel 's staunchest supporters , Senator ' William E. Borah of Idaho and former United States Special Deputy Attorney General , Frank B. Kellogg voiced on the floor in the most emphatic manner their conviction that the Taft delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the Roosevelt headquarters the result of the hearings to-day , as well as the stand taken by the Roosevelt members on the committee , have produced a feeling bordering on panic . Senator Dixon , manager of tho Roosevelt forces , said to-night that he was at a loss to explain the findings in the Indiana contests and the attitude taken by Senator Borah and 11r . Kellogg . Senator Dixon and the rest of the Roosevelt leaders still believe that both the adroit and Stalwart champions in the Colonel 's cause remain loyal , but among the small fry of the Roosevelt following some very suggestive utterances to-night indicated a suspicion in the Roosevelt camp that some of the men who so far have given the Roosevelt movement its real strength were beginning to break away from the Colonel . To-night every one here , including the Colonel 's following , ( the latter with regret , ) recalls the emphatically warlike and denunciatory note that was sounded by Mr. Roosevelt after the Republican State Convention of Indiana had elected some or the most prominent men in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taft . As fate would have it , the ' Colonel did his scolding at the Auditorium in this city . only a few steps away from the hotel which to-night is the scene of all the ante-convention activities , and where the corridors and lobbies are humming with discussion of the Colonel 's utterances on March Z. and the action of his own followers on the National Committee to-day . The Colonel 's Fraud Cry . In his Auditorium speech the Colonel said : As I have said , such primaries ( New York ) are not only a farce , but a erlrulne.l fame . What was done in New York Is substantially what was done in Indiana and Colorado . Against all the money , all the patronage , all the efforts of the Healing machine in indtana , with nothing but the plain people of the State to rely upon , we carried the State Convention handsomely , and then by fraudulent action , which can only be called brutal In Its utter defiance of decency , nearly 200 delegates were thrown out and the will of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , declined to abide by the result , and held a separate convention . They would have been derelict in their duty had they not done so , for the Keating machine State delegation in Indiana does not represent the people at all . and all its actions are in no shape or manner representative of or binding on the ran'a. and file of the Republican Party in Indiana . The Colonel followed this speech some weeks later by implicating President Taft in the Indiana result . In a statement issued from Oyster Bay on May 1 , the Colonel said : In Kentucky , In Indtana , In New York and elsewhere Mr. Taft knows well that the delegates elected for him represent bare-raced fraud . He stands guilty of connivance and condonation of these frauds . He stands guilty of approving and encouraging fraud . Ile deprives all people of their rights to express their wish as to who shall be nominated . In sal these primaries I have stood for ebsonite honesty and fair play . Mr. , Taft has stood for crooked raisrepresentatiba of the will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the strength of the Colonel 's utterancez , the Roosevelt campaign managers had prepared to make the Indiana celltests a real fight to the finish . They realized that a decision in favor of President Taft in these cases would be a severe blow to the Colonel 's prestige . The contesting delegation at large , too , was made up of some very radical Repubeicane . The Roosevelt delegation was headed by es-Senator Albert J. Beveridge . Former Chairman Edwin M. Lee of the Indiana Central Republican Committee , former Representative Frederick K. Landis , and Charles H. Campbell of Shelbyville were the other Roosevelt delegates at large . On the Taft delegation were Harry S. New , who has acted as Chairman of the sub-committee of the Republican National Committee which has been making all arrangements for the convention ; former Vice President Charles Warren Fairbanks , es-Congressman James E. Watson , and Joseph D. Oliver . The motion to seat the Taft delegates ; was made by Sidney Bieber , the Republican National Committeeman from the District of Columbia , who is enlisted in Col. Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Get Borah to Explain . The Senator from Idaho was selected by the other members of the committee as their spokesman after they Sad been 4esie , s7ed by demands for an explanation of their votes . Speaking for myself , " said Senator Borah to-nights " I feel that if all the contests to which there is real merit are decided in the favor of Col. Roosevelt his nomination is assured . From all the evidence I heard I came to the conclusion that President Taft was entitled to all the delegates at large and all the delegates from the contested Indiana districts with exception of the Thirteenth Congressional District . In that contest I and the other members on the committee favoring Col. Roosevelt 's nomination ' voted against seating- the Taft delegates , but were outvoted 36 to 14 . That is all there is to it . " Senator Borah was asked how he ' squared the situation as disclosed by the evidence on the contests with the utterances of Col. Roosevelt with reference to the Indiana situation . " There have been many frauds at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he replied . " But there was no evidence to that effect presented . The evidence we heard showed that some 0,000 cotes had been cast for the Taft delegates - to some 1 , " for the Roosevelt delegates , a t large . Only 200 votes were shown to us to have been fraudulent . tinder the circumstances I could not well vote to sustain the Roosevelt delegates . Even if the Colonel 's nomination depended upon it , T would not do it . " " What foundation would we lay for honest treatment to ourselves when we reach such States as Washington , for instance , if we had voted against the Taft delegates in this instance ? " 11cTICin ley Exultant . Director William B. or the ' Taft Bureau was naturally jubilant at the decision in the Indiana cases . He said to-night : " By the unanimous tote of the Republican National Committee to-day , including such well-known supporters of Theodore Roosevelt as Senator IV . E. , Borah of Idaho , Frank B. Kellogg of Minnesota , George A. Knight of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. Ward of New York , Pearl Wight of Louisiana , and others , the Taft delegates at large from Indiana were ordered seated in the coming Republican National convention over the Roosevelt delegates at large . who contested their seats . " Mr. referred to Col. Roosevelt 's cry of fraud in the Indiana cases , and then he continued : " This is a most apt illustration of the unbridled manner in which Mr. Roosevelt throughout this entire campaign has assailed the Republican Party , its principles , its President , and its leaders everywhere . If Mr. Roosevelt does not have his way he denounces everybody and everything in sight , regardless of the merits of his cause and in defiance of all square dealing . In this particular case his decision as to the Indiana contests. which he advertised all over the country , has been repudiated by the unanimous vote of the Republican National Committee . The absolute bad faith of Mr. Roosevelt in bringing con-tests such as these before the Republican National Committee is again emphasized by a unanimous decision against him . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the Indiana contests give President ' Taft a total of eighty-four delegates which Roosevelt contested . So far not a single Roosevelt contestant has been seated by the committee . The committee began work to-day by taking up the California situation . The question had been raised about the legality of the - election of delegates in that State in the recent primaries because these elections did not conform with the rule of the National Committee as set forth in the call to the National Convention . The Roosevelt managers had espressed fear that the National Committee would try to bar out the Roosevelt delegates , but the action of the committee eased such fears . All the Roosevelt delegates from California were seated . with the exception of those from the Fourth Congress District , where there is a contest by the Taft men . Hearing of the contest from the Fourth was laid over until Wednesday . Vigilance Committee Ready . Both the Taft and the Roosevelt vigilance committees are anxiously awaiting the arrival of the first delegations to begin their activities . In the meantime their reinforcements are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both forces . William Barnes , Jr. , the New York Republican chieftain , who has been selected to make the fight for President Taft on the floor of the convention , is expected to-morrow . Notable figures in the Taft ' , column who were in evidence here to-day I were Secretary of the Treasury and Secretary of Commerce and Labor Nagel . Secretary Nagel spent part of the day at the Coliseum Annex , where the National Committee is hearing the contests . Mr. Nagel is a National Committeeman I from Missouri . He is not attending the , hearings , but is represented by proxy . Secretary Nagel has declared that , being Involved himself In the contests from Missouri , he was unwilling to sit in judgment . " There is no doubt in my mind how . the contests will terminate , ' said Secretary Nagel . " They will all be decided in favor of the President . The contests ' hat have gone before have amply shown what merits there are to the Roosevelt contests . The pitiful part of it is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be compelled to waste their time in listening to proceedings like these for days at a stretch . This whole business should have been decided in a couple of hours . " Secretary Nagel said there was no doubt . that President Taft would be nominated ' on the first ballot . Secretary of the Treasury made a similar forecast . Taft Sure , Says . " Things are looking better for President Taft every day , " said Mr. Mac-I ebagh . " The President 's friends believe that he will be nominated on the first ballot . The contests instituted by the Roosevelt faction . are not well founded , as the unanimous action of the National Committee in nearly all the cases indicate . " Secretary declared that the campaign had been very hard on the President , . who disliked to answer the attacks made by CoL Roosevelt-until he was forced to do so . " President Taft is not a man to harbor resentment , " said Secretary , " but I doubt if he and Col. Roosevelt will ever make up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a harsh thing about the Colonel , and until a few months ago he spoke of him in most endearing terms . But the President is not the only friend the Colonel has lost . Look at Senator Root and Secretary Knox . They are both strong Taft men now . " " Do you believe the Taft men would support Col. Roosevelt if he were to be nominated ? " Mr. efacVeagh was asked . " Many of them would . What they ! would do as a faction I do not know . " " Do you regard a deadlock in the convention a possibility ? " " It is possible but not probable . I believe the President will be renominated on the first ballot " On the other hand , James R. Garfield , who was Secretary of the Interior under the Roosevelt Administration , , and Gifford Pinchot , both declared e , phatically to-night tha .. CoL Roosevelt would be ilarainated. law . Johnsen , et California fa - oa his way to ' the convention city . He is another Roosevelt man . Roosevelt Managers.at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at sea ' than ever . - As far as could be learned . their plans in case the Colonel is defeated , as the Taft people insist and developments here indicate . that he will be , have not been definitely decided upon . Bolt talk has almost been abandoned . The fact is that Boss Flinn of Pennsylvania and halt a dozen other stanch supporters of the Colonel have put their foot down on that . They insist that the ! fight must be made on the floor of the convention , and that the Colonel shall accept the decision of the delegates . Gov . Stubbs of Kansas , Senator Borah of Idaho , Frank B. Kellogg of Minnesota , and even the loyal Pinchot and Garfield all made it plain that they were not considering the possibility , or as far as that goes the necessity , of a bolt . Neither would follow the Colonel into the wilderness . As far as the Roosevelt programme has been made it involves taking the contest into the convention where first the committee on contested seats and later the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is pointed out . however , that with nearly all the decisions up to the present time at least acquiesced in by the committee members controlled by the Roosevelt forces , the Colonel has laid a yvry poor foundation for bringing his contests before the convention itself . There has been some talk here of rough house tactics and two conventions under one roof at the same time , something on the line of the stormy conventions that have been held in various States where conesting delegations to the National Convention have ben selected only on a bigger and more spectacular scale . - " What would be gained by that ? " asked one of the Colonel 's advisers to-night . " It would mean two Republican parties instead of one , with victory for neither possible . " " Will the Colonel head a third party and run as an independent candidate ? - was asked . Col. Roosevelt 's friend shrugged his shoulders , " That is up to Mr. Roosevell , " he said . " I do not know . " There seems to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his medicine and lie down after President Taft has been renominated : " was suggested . " The Colonel will never lie down , " he said . " That is certain . If he is defeated ih the convention it will only be the beginning of the fight . If these people want to elect a Democratic President the easiest way of doing it is by defeating the Colonel for the nomination . Perhaps you would find two sets of Republicans running for Congress in every district in the direct primary States , including New York . " La Follette Wo n't Help . Desperate efforts have been made by the Roosevelt managers to persuade Senator La Follette and Senator Cummins of Iowa to turn over their forty delegates to the Colonel . It can be stated positively that these efforts have been in vain , Senator La Fonette 's representative here told the Roosevelt managers that the Senator would not , if he could , swing Ms strength to the Colonel , and that he could not if lie would . The Wisconsin delegation would sooner go to President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Roosevelt fortunes in the Republican National Convention hinge on the remote possibility of a stampede . This , of course , depends largely upon whether or not the Colonel comes , to the convention to lead his forlorn forces . A number of the Colonel 's leaders maintained ' that Col. Roosevelt would not be in Chicago at any time prior to the convention , while others stoutly asserted that they had received positive information that he would be here by Wednesday or Thursday at the latest . Lafayette B. Gleason of Delhi , N. Y. , Secretary of the New York State Repube lican Central Committee , and selected for Temporary Secretary of the convention ey the Sub-Committee on Arrangements , declared to-day that he was confident that eighty-five of the ninety New York delegates would vote for Senator Elihu Root for Temporary Chairman . " I have received telegrams from eightyfive of the New York delegates , " said Mr. Gleason , " and they will support Senator Root . I am just as confident that from eighty-one to eighty-five of the delegates will vote for President Taft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Albert B. Cummins of Iowa for Republican Presidential nominee was raised to-day by his colleague , Senator W. S. Kenyon , who arrived from Iowa . Senator Cummins now has ten delegates pledged to him . Senator Kenyon said : " Friends of Senator Cummins believe the rank and file of the Republican Party are tired of the present controversy and tired of personal politics . We present in him a man who can unite the party and lead it to an old-time victory . His candidacy is not for the purpose of injuring any one or punishing any one . " It was expected that the headquarters of Senator Robert M. La Follette would be opened in a downtown hotel to-morrow , with Wisconsin men actively at work for their candidate . 