@@703750

Friends Of the two opposing sides In the Spanish civil war met on the propaganda battlefield here in Washington yesterday , each group knowing that the Administration is seeking modification of the neutrality statutes and each anxious that changes shall not harm the cause It favors in Spain . Seldom has rival propaganda reached such peaks with each group trying to make an inwression which would influence Members of Congress . Supporters of the Spanish Loyalist Government held their rally first in a Masonic Temple during the afternoon and then sent delegations on the rounds of Congress . Friends of General Franco , organized in a " keep the Spanish Embargo Committee " sponsored by the National Catholic Welfare Conference and endorsed by Roman Catholic Archbishop Michael J. Curley of Baltitn &e,; met in Constitution Hall during the evening . Rivalry expressed itself in two aspects . Each tried to marshal the most impressite list of prominent names . Each tried to stage the biggest rally . An Incidental Issue The honors this morning appear to be about , even . And it is extremely doubtful whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Spanish embargb will be incidental to the broader question of whether the Neutrality Act is to be modified to permit American discrimination against aggressors . If Congress approves such a course the Spanish embargo will be washed overboard with general provisions of the act . If Congress disapproves , the Spanish embargo will probably remain in force . The disposition of Administration leaders is to sidestep any specific vote on the Spanish issue by keeping the debate in Congress on the broader question of general neutrality legislation . But this aspect made no difference to the rival camps beseiging Congress for their respective Spanish friends . In respect to prominent names , the two groups did about equally well . In the battle for numbers at their rally General Franco 's adherents scored heavily . At the pro-Loyalist rally the speakers were Louis Bromfield , author ; Leon Henderson , New Deal economist ; Former Representathe Jerry O'Connell ( D ) of Montana , and Dr. Oscar E. Maurer , Moderator of the General Council of Congregational Churches . Messages were read from Upton Sinclair , author . and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The rival " Keep the Spanish Embargo " Committee had for speakers Martin Conboy , prominent New York Attorney , Irwin Laughlin . Fortner United States Ambassador to Spain , Monsignors , Fulton J. Sheen , pro- fessor at the Catholic University of America , and Miss Aleleen O'Brien , former Red Cross corker behind the Franco lines . They had Senator David I. Walsh ID ) of Massachusetts , on the platform with the speakers . On the list of committee members were the names of Alfred E. Smith , Ellery Sedgwick , Editor of the Atlantic Monthly , W. Cameron Forbes , Former United States Ambassador to Japan and Archbishop Curley of Baltimore . Monsignor Sheen was received by President Roosevelt at the White House this morning . The latter presented the case for his organization to the President . The pro-Loyalists packed their smaller Masonic Temple auditorium But the National Catholic Welfare Conference not only packed Constitution Hall , biggest auditorium in the City , but had two or three thousand standing around outside . Roman Catholic school children were brought from as far as Baltimore to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who turned out to cheer speakers wherever something friendly was said about General Franco or his Insurgents , and maintain a complete silence on the subject of Loyalists . The pro-Loyalist group speeches came out in strong fashion for lifting the Spanish embargo on the grounds that it was essential to the self-interest of the United States . as well as essential to the survival of democracy in Spain , Emphasis on Neutrality The opposing group , although its strong sympathy for General Franco was clearly apparent from the tenor of remarks and the placing of applause , nevertheless took the official position that it is interested only in preserving American neutrality by keeping the em- bargo in effect . Edward J. Ileffron , Secretary of the Committee , stated that it Is " solely and simply committed to the position that the embargo on shipment of arms to either side should not be lifted in any manner , for the reason that that would be a definitely partisan ? ct which would ( 1 ) be dangerous to the peace and security of the United States , and ( 21 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion In Spain . " Miss O'Brien drew a sharp distinction between the behavior of the two factions in Spain toward churches and the Roman Catholic clergy . Mr. Laughlin declared that Coinmuntsm was more important on the Loyalist side and Fascism on the other . Mr. Conboy argued from the legal side of the issue . Fascist Threat Seen At the rival Masonic Temple rally a resolution was adopted declaring . " We believe that the point of greatest danger at present is Spain , because if the Fascists for whom Franco is the tool succeed in crushing the Spanish people , a direct avenue of propaganda and incitement to Fascism will have been opened to Latin-American countries . " Archbishop Curley of Baltimore conducted a sepal ate feud of his own with Fernando de los Rios , Spanish Ambassador , who early yesterday extended an invitation to Archbishop Curley and several other prominent Roman Catholics to visit Loyalist Spain and see for themselves that churches are open and that priests are actually alive and going about their religious duties . The Baltimore prelate replied with a public statement that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liar , " adding : " I guess he would have me come over wearing my clerical collar  --  and get murdered. **                     