@@719150

A.F.L.-C.I.O . ACCUSES HOFFA OF AIDING UNION CRIMINALS Ethical Practices Unit Gives Teamsters Notice to Purge Leaders or Get Out M'CLELLAN LAUDS GROUP Asserts Hoffa Committed Flagrant Perjury in His Senate Testimony Summary of committee report on teamsters , Page 21 . By A. H. RASKIN The merged labor federation yesterday accused James R. Hoffa of promoting the interests of a " rogues ' gallery " of hoodlums , whose arrest records covered every crime from robbery to murder . The charge against the Midwest chief of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters was made by the Ethical Practices Committee , official watchdog of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations . The committee 's report was by all odds the most blistering castigation ever directed against a union by its parent organization . In effect , it served notice on the country 's biggest and most powerful union that it did not merit a place in the federation unless it got rid of Hoffa and at least three other top leaders . McClellan Applauds Action The determination of the merged movement to force the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate investigating committee that developed most of the information on racket influence in the 1,400,000-member truck union . In a speech here Senator John L. McClellan , Democrat of Arkansas , charged that Hoffa had " committed flagrant , willful and contemptible perjury " in his testimony before the committee last month . The Senator expressed hope that the Justice Department would act against Hoffa , who hopes I ) become president of the teamsters at the union 's convention in Miami Beach Sept. 30 . The rackets investigator also urged legislation to make the looting of union treasuries and welfare funds a crime punishable in the Federal courts . He voiced certainty that Congress would enact laws to back up the efforts being made by labor 's high command to wipe out union corruption . Ca n't Stay Without Purge The publication of the Ethical Practices Committee report erased any possibility that the teamsters would be allowed to stay in the federation without a purge of its leadership . The formal clean-up mandate will be given Tuesday and Wednesday at a meeting of the A. F. L.-C . I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four leaders whose records were excoriated in the report were Hoffa , Dave Beck , the retiring president ; Frank W. Brewster of Seattle , a vice president , and Sidney L. Brennan of Minneapolis , another vice president . The committee held that // Beck , Brewster and Hoffa had used union funds for personal purposes . In the case of Beck and Hoffa , the watchdog group added that the union membership had frequently suffered from their employment of their official positions for personal ; enrichment . The union was censured for failing to expel Brennan after he had been found guilty of taking a bribe from an employer for breaking a strike . A similar lack of disciplinary ardor was found by the committee in the organization 's handling of other officers who had engaged in " corrupt activities offensive to trade union morality . " But the severest criticism was reserved for Hoffa as a man found to have " associated with , sponsored and promoted the interests of notorious labor racketeers . " The committee spurned Hoffa 's own explanation that the presence in his entourage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part to reform and rehabilitate juvenile delinquents . Haven for Delinquents ? " Without denying the possibility of rehabilitation in individual cases , " the committee said , " we do not think it a proper function of a union to serve as a haven for questionable characters . " These people were delinquent in every sense of the word and have given a black eye to the labor movement because of their activities . We conclude that these associations were with knowledge of the facts and that they can not be justified by any temporary advantage Hoffa thought could be gained for the union . " The plain fact is that Vice President Hoffa , by his associations , cast a cloak of respectability over such individuals in labor circles , thus permitting them to continue and expand their nefarious activities to the detriment of organized labor . " Focus on Hoffa and Dio Special attention was focused on Hoffa 's associations with John Dioguardi , better known as Johnny Dio , a convicted extortionist and underworld kingpin . The two men were found to have conspired against the interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an issue on which Hoffa complained of faulty memory in his testimony before the Senate Select Committee on Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field . The keepers of labor 's moral cbde said they considered it " incredible that Vice President Hoffa with his long experience in the labor movement could be ' taken in ' by Dio . " " We think , " the committee said , " the evidence is overwhelming that a close relationship existed between them , and this despite what Hoffa must have known as to Dio 's character , reputation and tactics . " Virtually all the specifications in the report against Beck , Brewster and Hoffa came from testimony before the Senate committee . Disclaimers Dismissed The disclaimers of wrongdoing put forward by the teamster chiefs in their appearances before the A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . panel were dismissed as insufficient or unworthy of belief . The tangle of financial deals in which Beck was involved , included his taking of $370,000 in unrecorded loans , brought a committee finding that the union head had " wholly violated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ callous disregard for union ethics . " Brewster 's use of union money to pay horse racing bills , buy a home and make other personal outlays caused the committee to observe that the only difference between his record and Beck 's was in the amount of money involved . The panel closed its sixty- ? four-page indictment with a decision that the truck union " has been and continues to be dominated or substantially influenced by corrupt influences " in violation of the anti-racketeering provisions of the A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . constitution . It is expected that the executive council , under the leadership of George Meany , will give the teamsters until Oct. 15 or Nov. 1 to drop corrupt leaders and set in motion a comprehensive reform program . The penalty for insufficient action will be suspension and eventual expulsion of the union from the parent group , according to federation officials . In Miami Beach Hoffa said the federation report would cause no abandonment of his fight for the $50,000-a-year union presidency . He declined specific comment on the report , pending preparation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he added : " It will be up to our convention , after analyzing the report and the comments on it , to make the decision who is going to be the union 's president and what constitution the union is going to operate under . I will be bound by their decision . But one thing is sure , I will definitely be a candidate . " In Boston the president of the largest teamster local in New , England announced that he planned to back Hoffa at the convention . The pledge was made by William . J. McCarthy , head of Local 25 . In this city the executive board of Inland Warehousemen 's Local 810 ordered its delegates to vote against Hoffa for any office . A similar directive was given against any official who had invoked the Fifth Amendment against selfincrimination in the Senate sessions . Two Other Unions Assailed Overshadowed by the condemnation of the teamsters were simultaneous Ethical Practices Committee reports affecting two other unions . They were the Bakery and Confectionery Workers and the United Textile Workers , both also accused of abuses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee held that the unions had failed to live up to the standards of ethical union practices required by the A. F. L.-C . I. 0 . constitution . However , the reports were far less harsh than the assault on the teamsters . James G. Cross , president of the bakers , was censurectfor accepting loans from a business man involved in dealings with his union , for taking a gift from a local union under trusteeship and for " improper procedures " with respect to expense accounts . " While certain corrective measures have been taken by the Bakery Workers Union to deal with some of the unethical practices which this investigation has disclosed , these measures have not been sufficient , in the committee 's judgment , to eliminate corrupt influences , loose and unethical practices and to prevent wrongdoing , " the committee said . In the case of the textile union , the report directed particular criticism at the operations of Anthony Valente , president , and Lloyd Klenert , secretarytreasurer . It declared that their financial manipulations and other activities involved " more than technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be condemned as corrupt by any standards . " Federation officials indicated little expectation that the bakery union would be ousted unless it indicated unwillingness to amplify the reforms already under way . More doubt was expressed about whether the textile union would be kept without the elimination of one or both its top officers . Senator McClellan 's attack on Hoffa was made before the annual convention of the American Institute of Supply Associations at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel . The association consists of wholesale dealers in plumbing and pipefitting equipment .                     