@@679050

Discussion of the Anti-Parade question whether the Arguments National Guard should . Strongeror should not parade the on Fourth of July has fortunately taken the line of bringing ' out the facts in the case , and though there was at first , we think , a rather genera impression that the Guardsmen should be willing to take a prominent part in a sane celebration of the day , there must be by this time , it seems to us , an equally general admission that the arguments against participation in the parade are not only strong but conclusive . This is not , to say that the arguments on the other side are wholly without weight , but merely that they are outweighed by those of the objectors . Membership in the National Guard carries with it the burden of much hard work for which there Is no reward except the sense of patriotic and unselfish duty well performed . That being so , it is not unnatural that the Guardsmen are reluctant to give their time and energy to a task which will neither increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do so would tend to cool the enthusiasm Of the regiments and to make more difficult the filling of their ra.rtirs . It must be remembered , too , that if the Guardsmen march on Independence Day they will lose , not one holiday , but two and the greater part of another , so far as getting out of the city is concerned , and this means more , in many instances , to their wives and children than to the men themselves . An opportunity to pass two or three days in the country or on the seashore is one which the New Yorker rightly and eagerly welcomes at midsummer , and there 11 no compensation for its loss in the privilege of walking for hours over the hot July pavements . The muster days of old were doubtless joyous occasions , but they were so to people for whom mingling in crowds was a rare and therefore pleasurable experience . Mayor GAYNOIt , with his passionate love of pedestrian exercise , thinks it would do the Guardsmen good to parade , and the more good the hotter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his familiarity ? if he has any  --  with modern hygienics or with enlightened military opinion . It was such antiquated notions as his that sent out soldiers to the burning sands of Tampa to prepare them for a campaign in the troples , instead of keeping them up North till the last possible moment and landing thee . ' in Cuba with strength accumulated , not exhausted . Among the favors conCooling as ferred by a generous IteEasy public upon Its valued as Heating . servant , President TAFT , is an office room that at this season of the year is artificially cooled , just as in Winter it is artificially heated . Not only is this doubtless very pleasing to the President , since what may be called his personal architecture is such as to make him feel more than some other people the discomforts of hot weather , but it is probably a profitable use of public money , since it will enable him to do more work and better by diverting his attention from the tropic fervors of a Washington Summer . Now , when one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding why humanity has always realized the need of mitigating the severity of climate that takes the form of cold , but for the most part still astrumes the impossibility of doing anything to temper heat , from widen we suffer almost as much . At less expense than that by which houses are warmed in Winter they can be cooled la Summer , and , while the Winter heating . thanks to our strange refusal to learn the art of ventilation , involves the creation of conditions injurious to health , those which Summer cooling would establish would probably be in every way beneficial to us . At any rate , the thing is perfectly practicable . Of course , if adopted , it would add to the cost of living , but it would also increase the general stock of available energy , which would mean an increase of earning power to a more than compensating degree . Not much of a refrigeration plant would be required to bring the air . of bedroom to a temperature in which sleep would be refreshing , instead of impossible or exhausting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well to do , at least , do not generally , instead of hardly at all , utilize a benefit which science is ready to give them for much less money than they pay for a thousand other smaller luxuries and conveniences . One of our readers very Sullivan solemnly lays before us a as a . question which more than a few others are perhaps askReporter. ing , and it seems well , therefore , that he and they should be carefully answered . Here is the question as put to us : If , as-your editorial columns inform your readers , the much-heralded fight Is in vloInnen . of ; the law , and Gov . GILLMTT is to be " cominerided for preventing it , will you ki ' . inform us by what reasoning or vote justify the.engagement , of an : tek. - to . nenort ' in the details of a criminal proceeding which youfofi Wally - condemn . Underlying this inquiry is the much larger one whether a reputable newspaper should devote any part of its news columns to ? reporting a sport , . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would gladly have suppressed . That question is answered negatively by a few newspaper : , in the legitimate exercise , presumably , of a conscientious judgment , but conscientious judgments are not invariably sound , and we are nearly if not quite sure that 15y the adoption of that policy those papers deprive themselves of the most effective weapon that can be used against any abuse  --  the presentation of it exactly as it is and in such detail as is ? commensurate with its enormity or importance or extent . Prizefighting will never suffer anything from mere abstract  --  and usually exaggerated  --  denunciations of its brutality , and nothing would better please the exploiters of its financial possibilities than to have it entirely ignored by the papers that speak to and for the better elements of citizenship . It has therefore seemed judicious to us to give pugilism attention proportioned to the interest , favorable and unfavorable , excited by it , and especially to let its opponents , among whom err own position was long since established , know exactly what the thing is in its modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As for employing JOHN L. Suatavatc to report the Jeffries-Johnson fight , that was Merely the getting of a particularly competent man to do the work from the standpoint of an acknowledged expert . What he writes ' is having and will have both evidential and psychological value . And our critical friend should remember that " boxing con tests " are not " criminal " in California . or prizefights in Nevada                     