@@714850

These Italian workers and technicians are learning English in eight weeks at Harvard University to prepare for jobs in American industry . They 've been brought here , to remain for a year , by the Mutual Security Agency as part of a pioneer program to combat communism in EuroReproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Pean industry . Their intensive English course at Harvard is directed by Miss Christine Gibson , who with Harvard Prof. I. A. Richards has pioneered direct-method mass English instruction . The men currently are engaged in editing a newspaper written in basic English . l Story : Page 2 . I To cope with jobs in American industry 79 Italian workers and technicians now are being mten- , sively trained in basic English at Harvard . They are part of 2.000 Western European workmen , foremen , and junior engineers being brought to America in a pioneer experiment , which began this year . by the Mutual Security Agency . During their year they will hold jobs in industry . They will belong to labor unions and attend special **27;479;TOOLONG @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But before they can hold jous. the 79 at Harvard are having a speaking knowledge of English drilled into them in eight weeks  --  probably some of the most intersive work ever offered at the university . English Through Pictures Their mass Eriglish lessons are no relation to the usual plodding word lists and interminable verb blanks . Their classes use film strips , movies , recordings , and everyday objects  --  including a fully equipped doll 's house . Methods have been developed by Dr. I. A. Richards , professor of English at Harvard , and his research associate in the Graduate School of Education , Miss Christine Gibson . With a staff of eight . Miss Gibson has been directing teaching with the pocket book , " English Through Pictures , " developed by Dr. Richards and herself , as the Core . Now at the end of the fifth week after morning and afternoon classes and much study the young men have started their own weekly newspaper . Five of their members are reporters and two of the teaching staff act as supervisors . 500 to 1,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " I Am Here , ' one of the Italians commented on their English progress thus : " My boys , I think that the English language is becoming very important for some of us , especially on the week ends . You can see men who are eating the same foods for five weeks , because they do n't know other names to change their meal . Do n't laugh , please . " This kind of mass English instruction is not new to Miss Gibson . During World War II she and Dr. Richards supervised quick training of 1,000 Chinese brought over by the Navy to man warships on China duty . Later in London she supervised instruction of 6,000 displaced central Europeans who volunteered to work in British coal mines . But , according to Miss Gibson , the Italians are one of the most responsive and energetic groups ! yet . At present they have about a 400-word basic English vocabulary . By the end of the course they will have between 500 and 1,000 basic words plus much specialized industrial vocabulary that will equip them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harvard they will live in college dormitories with other Europeans taking part in the MSA Work-Study-Training for Productivity program and work in industrial jobs arranged for them by the MSA . It is expected that their firsthand experience here , transplanted back into factories all over Europe , will combat Communist claims better han any amount of words could possibly do . Italians already have shown their warm appreciation of America to their hosts at Harvard . Although they did not know one another before they boarded the boat for America they have worked themselves into a singing chorus .                     