@@718650

has brought protests from some journalistic groups . Although popular attention is still centered primarily on the Middle East crisis one of the big questions at Bermuda will be trade with China . It is understood that Mr. Macmillan will not ask United States recognition of China nor UN membership , knowing how strong senatorial feeling is , but that he will press for relaxation of current controls on trade . President ' in Middle ' Mr. Eisenhower will find himself in the middle , congressional pressures on one side and growing allied pressures for relaxed trade controls on the other . The international list of prohibited trade items , characterized as " strategic , " is much longer for Communist China than for the Soviet Union . Britain would be reasonably satisfied if the Soviet list could be used for China . The issue lay dormant becausp of the American election . Mt . Macmillan 's predecessor , Sir Anthony Eden , early in 1956 made a strong plea for relaxation in Washington . East-West trade , he said , is important " not only for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help to better understanding between countries . " Nothing was clone . Now the election is over , Britain and France feel they need Eastern trade more than ever and Mr. Macmillan has told Parliament he will raise the matter , U.S. Allies Restive Some allies have defied the United States over trade and others are restive . The United States , they argue , can not pretend that the biggest nation on earth does not exist : it would be better to have China in the UN where it can be watched . This view is bitterly rejecter ' by the Knowland school . They argue Communist China is outside the pale of civilization : its recognition would be treason to Chiabg Kai-shek and Formosa , and it would place tens of thousands of Chinese outside of Communist China in an ambiguous position . Secretary Dulles in a speech in the Far East just reaffirmed America 's devotion to Chiang 's government on Formosa , recognized by the United States as " China . " Halfway between the positions is a United Nations study , " The Quest for Freer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are entirely dropped total expansion of trade might not be of great significance . Virtually all the trade in nonstrategic goods with the free world that Communist countries can conduct is now going on , , it is said . But a lifting of controls would make it simpler for Communist countries , it declared , to buy " strategic " goods  --  which is the significant point .                     