@@716750

The roundup of a west coast counterfeiting ring which had attempted to spread its operations to Chicago continued yesterday with the secret service announcing that 12 persons were in custody . The prisoners included William Guren and Robert Durand , seized here Saturday with $100,000 in bogus $20 bills in a suitcase . Huge quantities of the bills had been printed . Many of them still may be in circulation in the hands of innocent persons , mostly in the west . The bills have the serial number 01137932A and , a poorly done picture of President Jackson . Entertainer Is Sought The other suspects were arrested in Los Angeles and San Rafael , Cal. , and Dallas , Tex . The crackdown also was under way in San Francisco , where Danny Mills , a night club master of ceremonies , was being sought as a fugitive after first agreeing to help agents set a trap . Guy H. Spaman , secret service agent in charge at Los Angeles , announced the arrest yesterday of Roger Haizlip , 29 , and disclosed that Ralph E. Guf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Arrested earlier in Los Angeles were two actors , a printer , and an unidentified 17 year old strip teaser . The actors were George W. Lewis and John B. Roche , arrested during a performance at the Carousel theater . Seize , Charge Printer Glenard Elmer Schmidt , a printer in a Los Angeles suburb , was charged with manufacturing the bills . All other suspects were charged with possessing and passing them . The first arrests were in Dallas on New Year 's morning . Millard 0 . Patterson , San Francisco , and Kenneth A. Scott , Bristow , Okla. , were seized on word from authorities in Las Vegas , Nev . In San Rafael agents seized Ralph Stanley Williams , 22 , of Napa , Cal. , and Merritt Gerhard Preston , 25 , an ex-convict of San Francisco , last . Thursday after their auto license was frayed Guren and Durand , who will be arraigned today before United States Commissioner C. S. Bentley Pike , arrived in Chicago from San Francisco last Tuesday . They registered at the Central Plaza hotel , 321 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passing the bills . Not Many Out Here Apparently they had not passed many of the bills before they were seized by agents led by Harry D. Anheier , agent in charge of the Chicago secret service office . Their names reportedly were obtained from persons at the San Francisco night club where Mills worked . Traced to Chicago , their trail was picked up by agents at the hotel . They were followed to Madison st. and Hamlin ay . where they made purchases with the phony money and were arrested outside a store .                     