@@712450

WASIIINGTON , Nov. ** of State Dean Acheson has reorganized the Public Affairs section of the Department of State in an effort to improve and increase the flow of foreign policy information to the public ' at home and overseas . It is understood that the assistant secretaries of state have been instructed to make available for publication as much material as possible and have received new responsibilities in establishing public information policy it-home and in the foreign embassies and legations . On : he recommendation of George V. Allen , Assistant Secretary of State , the public affairs overseas programming staff of some seventy members has-been transferred . from Mr. Allen 's Public Affairs section in the *State Department to the offices of the assistant secretaries for Europe , the Far East , the - Near East and Africa , and Latin America . Two New Functions To the regional assistant secretaries and the head of the department 's German division have been assigned new public affairs officers ? Milton ' C. Rewinkel , for Europe ; Bradley Connors , for the Far East ; Shepard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Walter Dustman , for Germany . With the aid of these new officers , the regional assistant secretaries of state will have two new functions ; to see that the policies in their regions are adequately explained to the people of this country through the press , radio and other mass information media and to direct the policies and operations of United States information and cultural officers overseas . In accordance with the Hoover Commission 's recommendation that the State Department be organized along geographical lines , the assistant secretaries for the various regions will also have a larger responsibility than before for giving policy guidance on the Voice of America broadcasts in their areas . The Public Affairs section of // the department , now under Mr. Allen , who will take over the United States Embassy . in Yugoslavia about the first of the year , will retain responsibility for producing the broadcasts , publications , and motion pictures to be sent overseas . This section also will have authority for defining and coordinating public affairs policy that affects more than one region of the world . A new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the direction of Walter K. Schwinn , former information officer in Warsaw , and a general manager of the overseas information and cultural programs will be appointed soon to serve in the Public Affairs section . These changes have been made as a result of a study conducted by Under-Secretary of State James E. Webb during the past few months . Mr. Webb established a Public Information Committee shortly after he came to the State Department early this year . The function of this . group , which includes the counselor of the State Department , George Kennan ; the Deputy Under-Secretary for Policy , Dean Rusk ; and the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs , Mr. Allen , has been to outline the official line to be taken on contemporary issues , and decide on the best means of carrying out the objectives they establish . Out of these meetings came the thesis now being put into operation , namely that the assistant secretaries of state who have special knowledge in the various regions of the world , 3hould assume primary responsibility for explaining their policies to the American people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still apparently the intention of Mr. Acheson and Mr. Webb to obtain an Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs who ' would carry out the functions o posed by the Hoover commission . At the present time , Mr. Kennon is he-ding the department 's policy planning staff , carrying out his other duties a ? ? counselor , and also trying to serve as a policy liaison officer with press and radio correspondents . Criticizing this system , the Hoover commission , of which Mr. Acheson was a member , recommended that " the Assistant Secre-1 tary of State , Public Affairs , should concentrate on serving as a high-level staff adviser on domestic and foreign public opinion , and as chief of public relations for the State Department . " The report observed that the " weakest link " with the American public " is the absence in the State Department of a single high official responsible for the vital contacts with the press . " It added that the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs should not only fill this void , but should also " be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public opinion aspects of any problem . " Under the reorganization now being carried out , all the regional assistant secretaries of state would be expected to share the public relations burden . However , it is explained that Mr. Acheson still intends to recommend the appointment of an assistant secretary who can perform the major public relations functions he supported as a member of the Hoover commission .                     