@@688350

As a consequence of the recent elections , plans are tinder way for the formation of a new national non-partisan political group which may lead to the organization of a third party for the Presidential campaign of 1024 . A formal statement Of the objects and plans of the organizers will be made in about two weeks . Disclosure of tho tentative plans will be withheld until after the arrival in Washington of a larger number of Sen. ators and Representatives for the assembling of Congress in special session on Monday . A meeting of the organisers will take place , probably by the end of the month , in some other city than Washington , with Now York or Chicago as the likely selection . One of the purposes in having the meeting away from Washington Is to discourage any impression that the new group is a legislatiVe , bloc . The intention of the founders is to make ft national in scope with lead-1 ing members taken from all interested t organizations outside of RH well as inside of Congress . Among those who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be asked are Senators ** of Idaho , Johnson of California , La Follette of Wisconsin and Norris of Nebraska ; Senators-elect Howell of Nebraska , Frazier of North Dakota , Shipetead , of Minnesota , William J. Bryan , Albert Z. Beveridge and some prominent unfelt labor and farmer organization leaders . Borne of these have expressed their sympathy with the movement . No part of the country will be overlooked in , the invitation of men to attend the conference for organization . These range from radicals to mild progressives . This movement is no amateur affair . Those behind it are men of countrywide reputation and a considerable number eitre practical politicians . It was said today that there had been an encouraging response to suggestions that the meeting be held to organize the group , but no definite Information is expected to be forthcoming until the formal call for meeting has been issued . Will Adopt and Push Program . ? The organization meeting is to frame a plan of procedure and a platform of policies . It is the intention of the organizers to seek to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1024 , but there seems to be no definite expectation that this will be accomplished . The primary purpose In Introducing bills along the lines of the platform adopted at the coming conference is to glvo the public an opportunity to consider these measures with a view to incorporating them into the platform of a third party in 1024 , or , if the third party idea is deemed inadvisable , to compel their incorporation in the platforms of one or the other or both of the major political parties . No throat is made by the organizers that a third party is to be a certain outcome of the movement , but the implication from what was said today was that unless one or the other of the major parties conformed to the principles which the new gorup will enunciate , formation of a third party can not be avoided . The new group , according to the intentions of its prospective founders , will take precedence of , if it will not displace , the farm bloc , the farm tariff bloc and other special groups In Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement , all the progressive elements in the country are to be invited to join the group without regard to present party affiliations . He said today that a situation confronted the country that had to be met . The else . tions of last week , he declared , were no more a Democratic victory than the elections of 1920 meant a Republican victory . He likened the American people at the present time to uneasy cattle in a corral ; they wanted to get out and were charging up and down in an effort tO do so without knowing how to accomplish escape . The trouble with the country politically . he asserted , was that neither major political party had a program . The new group intended to ' furnish a program . Would Hold Balance et Commas . What that program will be was Indicated , although it was pointed out that it could not be definitely adopted until after the meeting of organization . These items were mentioned as likely tO be included : 1 . Recognition of the Government of Soviet Russia . 2 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Internal tax laws with restoration of excess profits taxes Included . 4 . Revision of the Each - Cummins Transportation act so as to abolish the so-called guarantee to railroads and en ? able freight rates to be reduced . From what was learned today et tho plans of those behind this movement , ill Is apparent that its Congressional memo bership will not hesitate to use the bal. ance of power they will have in the next Congress to compel the Republican organization in Senate and House to make concessions to the new group with respect to floor leadership , membership of committees and possibly the Speakership.                     