@@694750

CERTAIN CRITICAL INFERENCES YOUR able musical critic , Mr. Olin Downes , has made some recent comments bearing strange implications and causing some of his readers to wonder if they are well founded . He has said , in effect , of certain recent orchestral performances  --  I think the most recent was Mr. Toscanini 's playing of a piece of Sinigaglia'sthat the conductor read them with a splendor and beauty of execution and conception that gave them a value higher than was really theirs ; that he made them seem better than they really are . Can such things he ? These comments remind elderly people , who remember Bill Nye , of his sage remark that Wagner 's music is really a good deal better than it sounds . The question is raised at once , how bad ought the performance to be of a poor or mediocre composition to give it its true value ; to present it as it really is and should be heard ? I suppose that in orchestral performances , as in all other things , what we want is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth . A conductor and an orchestra , on Mr. Downes 's theory , who play a piece to make it sound better than it ought to sound  --  in other words , better than it is  --  are falsifying it just as much as they who play it less well than it ought to be played or than it deserves . They are not presenting it in its true light . The conductor should call his men down from sublime heights to which they have inadvertently and improperly risen , and make them more pedestrian . This suggests the interesting possibility of a sliding scale of excellence in orchestras for works of different musical value . We can not always make up our programs of works of supreme quality . One star differeth from another star in glory ; and very likely there are not enough universally recognized , unsurpassed masterpieces to make up a season 's programs , while there may be enough and to spare of good pieces worth hearing in varying degrees less than the greatest . This being so , as probably all will admit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's theory , for a conductor to prepare his performances in differing degrees of excellence for pieces of varying quality . He will expend all his art and skill and elicit from his men their highest achievements only for the unsurpassable things . Thence downward he will carefully adjust the excellence of his performances to suit the descend-1 ing scale of excellence in the music . Ordinary or reasonably good compositions will receive an ordinary or reasonably good performance ; mediocre ones will receive a mediocre performance , in respects which Mr. Downes would doubtless be glad to point out . If perchance any really bad composition should get on the program  --  and it is impossible to say what may happen in exploring the uncharted seas of modern music  --  the orchestra should be made to play , as the Germans say , like pig-dogs . Thus will be given what is deserved  --  no beautiful tone , fine phrasing , nice adjustment of dynamics , precision of ensemble . Let not the audience be deceived by any of these things . This will be difficult for such an orchestra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; bad music will require from them " some tears in the true performance of it . " But perhaps in such a way a great conductor will show his greatest powers . He will do exactly the right thing , and be as bad as he ought to be , which is always hard for the less great to achieve . And so they will be put into their proper places who think that the best performance is none too good for any composer or any composition ; that a man should be measured by the best he can do and not the worst ; and that the greatest beauty that can be elicited from a composition in its performance comes from the music as well as from the orchestra and the conductor . SYLVANUS URBAN . New York , Jan. 30 , 1928 . Geraldine Farrar has been a lovely memory to the hearts of the New York operagoer for seeming aeons of time . This Fall she returned to the concert stage and became a beautiful actuality . She seemed a radiant vision , a bundle of live-wire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and New York rose en masse to greet the wanderer . She made a startlingly spectacular comeback . " Carmen " has been sung this season at the Metropolitan . It may have been sung as well , but it could hardly be acted as well as when Jerry portrayed the role with unequaled artistry . We miss Miss Farrar at the Metropolitan . I do hope Miss Farrar will appear in a musical drama very soon . A. RAY . New lccark , Jan. 13 , 1928.                     