@@696550

Murder , suicide , or accident ? This was the problem confronting the police today in investigating the death of Robert Chapman , 28 , leading ion of the - Easy For See See " company at the Green Street theater and ion of a San Francisco attorney . Chapman plunged to his death from the sixth story window of an apartment at 245 Leavenworth street early this morning . Alen A. Hoffman , author , , playwright a : .4 play broker , from whose apartment Chniiman plunged to the went bottom of a light well outside the kitchen window , was able to give police only meager details . Hoffman told of two men who came to the apartment and demanded liquor . When he refused one of the men knocked him unconscious , he said , and when be regained his senses his companion had already fallen to his death . Friend Attacked at Door . After last night 's performance of the play Chapman and his friend Hoffman repaired to the apartment of Miss Florence Bell , who enacts a leading role in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miss Bell 's apartment they met Miss Edessa . Fowler , another actress , Kenneth Du Plan , an actor , William Heatteran , a sailor , and another woman as yet unidentified . Hoffman said he and Chapman had six or eight drinks of moonshine " between 11 p. m. and the hour they ieft , 3 a. m . It was late , said HoffMan , so he invited Chapman to spend the night at his apartment . About 4:30 a. m. their doorbell rang and the attack at the door came . There was a scuffle and one man struck Hoffman with brass knuckles , knocking him out . Theory of Detectives . Detectives expressed the theory that Chapman , frightened by the assault on his friend , attempted to leap out the window , forgetting Its height , or , they said , he may have fallen from the window accidentally in trying to escape . The death of Chapman is one more chapter in tho series of turbulent events that have surrounded " Easy for See See , " during its long run in San Francisco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elaine Worth , as she is called off the stage , has been involved after her underworld sweetheart , Jerry Ferri , was shot to death in the bathroom of his apartment at 490 Lombard atreeL Penwell Coal Mine Opens Today ; Closed Since April Tana , Ill. , Aug. 21 . ? ( W ? After having been closed since April 1 , the mine of the Penwell Coal and Mining company , one of the largest in central Illinois , resumed operations today . Four hundred men will be employed .                     