@@700850

Democratic , Republican and Fusion leaders expressed satisfaction yesterday with the registration in New York City and drew varying deductions from the results . The total registration in the city was 1,984,146 . This was 340,243 less than the registration for the Mayoralty election last year and 354,658 less than the ' record Presidentialyear registration in 1932 , but it was 415,841 more than the registration for 1930 , the last year in which a Governor but not a President was elected . The registration of 1,984,146 was obtained only by a remarkable last , day rush . The number of persons who registered on Saturday was 743,830 . This was 34,340 more than registered on the last day last year and only 3,955 fewer than the final day 's registration in 1932 . To unprejudiced observers this meant only one thing : that there had been an outpouring of voters from the apartment houses and two-family homes in the outlying sections of the city , uninfluenced , by the party organizations and ready to vote against Tammany as they did last year in electing Mayor LaGuardia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which seemingly was favorable to Controller Joseph D. , Fusion candidate , followed five days of apathy during which the total registration amounted to only 1,240,316 and during which it is fair to assume that the election district workers of Tammany and its allied Democratic organizations got virtually all the regular organization Democrats to the registration places . It seemed a fair assumption that the light registration of the first five days favored Frank J. Taylor , Democratic candidate for Controller , just as the heavy final day registration favored Controller . It is not believed that the candidates for State offices will be so affected by the city registration , although the heavier the registration in New York City , the heavier the plurality for the Democratic candidates for Governor and other State offices would be expected to be . With the registration virtually normal for a non-Presidential , nonMayoralty year , neither party seemed to have obtained much of an advantage during registration week . Registration up-State will not end until next Saturday . John F. Murray , chairman of the Lehman 3ray Independent Citizens Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registrationzfigures furnish convincing proof that the people of New York are entirely satisfied with the constructive , progressive and humane administration of Go% governor Lehman , " he said . " The reg istration spells a sweeping victory for the Governor , Lieut . Gov . Bray , Senator Copeland and the rest of the State ticket . " " I have made a careful examination of .. he registration figures throughout the city , " said Grover A. Whalen , chairman of the citizens ' committee for the election of Frank J. Taylor . " and I am satisfied that they clearly indicate that the Democratic party will have a great victory on Nov. 6 . The registration assures the election of Herbert H. Lehman for Governor and Frank J. Taylor for Controller . " Fusion Forces Encouraged . I. A. Hirschmann , chairman of the campaign committee , expressed even greater certainty that the registration figures indicated the election of his candidate . " The final results of the registration are , of course , most gratifying to those who favor a continuation of decent government in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that nearly 2,000,000 voters registered in what is generally regarded as an off year is an unmistakable sign that the ' independent , thoughtful citizens of this city have not lost interest in the fight for good government which was so successful last Fall . " The Fusion Forces bent every effort to get out a large registration , and reports from our workers in all parts of the city have indicated a responsiveness that has been most stimulating . " On the other hand , an analysis of the figures by districts shows that in the normally heavily Democratic districts the Tammany workers experienced great difficulty in getting their people out to register . The reason for this apathy among the Democratic organization voters has been partly assigned to the bitter factional disputes which have torn apart-the solid machine which in years past has always won easily for Tammany . " But in addition to that , it is Clearly apparent that independent Democrats , encouraged by their victory last year and by the amazing showing they made in this year 's primary , have determined to continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , delighted as they were with the results of the primaries , are even more heartened by the splendid showing which independent voters made in registration week . " The reports to us from the five Republican county organizations , all of which are loyally supporting Controller , indicate that they were much more successful than their Democratic opponents in getting their followers to the registration booths . " This is highly important , because without Republican support the independent Democrats would waste their strength and Fusion would be but a futile gesture . " Both Parties Have Troubles . The claim that the Republican election district workers were much more successful than the Democratic workers in getting members of their party to the registration booths was not confirmed by some Of the Republican leaders . A peculiar feature of the present campaign is that both the Republican and Democratic organizations in New York City have many workers who are either rebellious or apathetic . Republican election workers in many districts are resentful because of failure to obtain more patronage from the LaGuardia administration and are lukewarm in their support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tammany and the Democratic organizations in the other counties of the city , factional difficulties have not been eliminated by the election of James J. Dooling and the other county leaderships set up by Postmaster General James A. Farley , and there is a strong insurgent movement in the Bronx against the leadership of Secretary of State Edward J. Flynn , ally of Mr. Farley . Examination of the registration figures by boroughs and by Assembly districts showed that the loss of registrants is pretty evenly distributed , changes in population being taken into account . The losses in registration by boroughs from last year 's registration were as follows : Manhattan , 87 , - 965 ; the Bronx , 65,663 ; Brooklyn , 104,933 ; Queens , 72,786 ; Richmond , 8,896e                     