@@694650

PROTECTING THE LONE INVENTOR Individual 's Patent Rights Safeguarded but Big Concerns Can Get Better Market To the Editor of The New York Times : TILE TIMES has taken an interest , editorially , in the " garret inventor " vs. organized research inventors employed ad hoc by large industrial concerns . This controversy might be called Invention as Genius vs . Invention as an Industry , since some of the industrial concerns not only maintain research departments , but also fairly large patent departments of their own and file a large number of patent applications  --  mass production of patents . Some very fundamental considerations on behalf of the garret or lone inventor have , however , been quite overlooked . When it comes to patenting his invention  --  the real point of the whole discussion  --  the garret inventor will find that a super-benevolent Congress has surrounded him with much protection and advantage . First , every application fir patent must be executed by the actual inventor in person , unless deceased or non compos mentis . No grasping corporation , promoter , exploiter or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inventor 's invention , unless of indurated conscience respecting the averments made in the oath forming an essential part of every patent application . Other countries ; perhaps most other countries , do : not have this requirement , possibly regarding the invention of more importance than the personality of the actual inventor . Reduction to Practice Necessary . Then as to producing the ' invention in actual , practical or - operative form , known in patent parlance as " reduction to practice , " and without which no invention is legally patentable but is , in the same : parlance , merely a " conception " or " abandoned experiment , " the , editorial makes it seem as though the garret inventor was defeated by the large research organizations that ; alone can afford the research laboratories , plant or apparatus required for testing the practical workability of the constructed invention . But " this is a mistake . Any invention whatever , from a new form of the common envelope to a steam turbine or the most complex or costly machine imaginable can be " reduced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and paper and for no more outlay in money than $20 for the Patent Office filing fee , with perhaps 50 cents additional for the notary administering the oath to the application papers . That is , any invention is " reduced to practice " by merely writing out the application papers for patent therefore and filing the same with the said fee in the Patent Office . No Working Requirements . The patent laws and the patent right created thereby are not in the least concerned with whether the invention is ever produced in actual or physical form or not . Unlike some other countries , our patent laws have no working requirements , so that the invention need never exist otherwise than on paper . The patentee loses nothing by never working or constructing his invention ( Paper Bag Patents Case . 210 U. S. 405 ) . Hence the garret inventor is at no disadvantage with respect to his patent rights , unless he be so unfortunate as to have his application or patent declared in " interference " in comparison with the inventor of the research organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his garret as well as the latter could in his costly laboratory . All the foregoing has of course to do only with patent rights . It is in the industrial or commercial field that the large industrial concerns have the advantage . They are producing things that the public buys . An invention and the patent granted for it are of little or no value , no matter how " meritorious , " ingenious or wonderful the invention may be , nor how good the patent , if the consuming public wo n't consume it , but is satisfied with what it already has . So the inventor 's monetary return for his invention depends on the commercial market there may be for the thing he has invented . H. C. WORKMAN . Washington , D. C. , - Dec. 28 , 1927 . THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE To the Editor of The New York Times : I have read Tim Timis report of Dec. 28 , and I have been profoundly stirred by the conclusively proved and important truths revealed at Nashville , Tenn. , Dec. 27 , during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The most startling of these revelations was made by a woman , Dr. Mildred Trotter of the Washington University School of Medicine , St. Louis , who has flashed upon the horizon of scientific truth something new about shaving . With ingenuous scientific humility , Dr. Mildred Trotter averred that whatever barbers or millions of shavers may hold to the contrary , she has conclusively proved that shaving has no effect on ' the growth of the beard . For nine months four men saved their shavings for Dr. Trotter 's benefit . Thus she collected 25 ; 000 hairs cut at intervals of twelve to ninetysix hours . She magnified the hairs and measured them with an ocular micrometer . . She found that hair does not keep on growing ' and growing . Except for a few freaks , a man 's beard rarely exceeds a length of a foot . Hair starts to ' grow with a spurt of ' speed , but scion slows down , so that the longer the hair the slower is the growth . " There seems little doubt , " concluded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follicle is cyclic in character , including a growing period . followed by a resting period .. " In spite of the immense plausibility of Dr. Mildred Trotter 's argument , I shudder at the thought that Moses was a " freak " even , as he is sculp- tured by Michael Angelo in the San Pietro in Vincoli at Rome , with his gigantic beard meandering circuitously around his gloriously carved legs . There is a strain of pathos in the definite scientific statement of Dr. Trotter that for nine months four men saved their shavings for her benefit . Thus she collected 25,000 hairs . Sines . Dr. Trotter has illuminated the scientific aspect of the hair problem , she may be provoked to tell us the names of these four men who have laid down their lives for science . Who are these four men , or , better still , who are their wives , that they should ruthlessly so sacrifice their husbands on the altar of Science ? Moreover , has not Freud , who the other day , with only one book , took the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even ethical and scientific ) to the Sex-urge ? What would he say to these four martyrs for scientific progress ? Now that Dr. Mildred Trotter has gotten behind our skin and struck " in radice " and touched the very roots of a grave and momentous scientific difficulty , perhaps some philanthropist and scientific patron could be persuaded to create an endowment research fund for Dr. Mildred Trotter that she may enlighten us as to the mystery of the disposition of pigments in the cuticles of the ' skin , differentiating blondes from brunettes . Then perhaps later on she might illumine that still more baffling and obscure . mystery , why gentlemen prefer blondes : Why not ? These are portentous-and stirring days for science ! HENRY EDWARD O'KEEFFE .. New . : York , Aec .. 28 , 1927.                     