@@700750

As a measure of cooperation with the Federal administration in its efforts to stimulate the capital industries through loans to small householders for renovation and improvement , leading Wall Street banks are advising their correspondent banks throughout the country of their willingness to " go joint account " in making housing loans or to take over any surplus of loans which come to these correspondents . In letters that have gone out In the last few days and will continue to be sent , the big financial institutions have explained that , from the nature of their own business , they do not expect to receive directly many applications for housing loans . Their correspondents , however , located in smaller cities , towns and villages from coast to coast , are in a better position to hear from small home owners who desire to take advantage of the facilities of the Federal Housing Act . The Wall Street banks ' say that if any of these correspondents re , ceive more requests for such loans than they can conveniently handle , the surplus may be turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preferred , the big banks here are willing to go into partnership on the loans with their smaller correspondents . Decisions Up to Small Banks . For the most part these letters are being sent out by the chief executives or senior officers of the local banks and addressed to bankers in other cities with whom they are personally acquainted . In accordance with the standard practice , the correspondent banks which take up the offers will have full discretion in placing the loans and will , in addition , receive a " handling fee " for taking care of the details of the operations . This action has been taken by five or six of the more important Wall Street banks thus far , but it is expected to be followed by nearly all . In making their offers , bankers who have been active in the plan said yesterday , the banks here are not merely seeking to cooperate with the government in a project which they believe to be sound but are frankly seeking to participate in what they believe to be a safe and profitable business which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Check . A check for $1,200 , representing the first loan made under the Federal Housing Administration 's drive to modernize old homes and build new ones , was paid over yesterday in Washington to Miss Alma McCrum , ' the money was advanced for three years to supplement $600 Miss McCrurn will use to remodel her house so that she can occupy Ithe lower floor and rent the upper floor as an apartment . In handing her the check , E. C. Graham , president of a Washington bank , announced that " this loan actually starts throughout the country the Housing Administration 's machinery . " Officials of the Housing Administration said that loans would be available to every community . They added that banks , finance companies and building and loan associations with resources of $4,897,000 were ready to extend credit in towns and cities with a total population of 39,980,568 . Many smaller banks and financing companies began receiving applications yesterday for building modernization loans under the Federal Housing Administration 's program and the State offices of the PHA at 11 West Forty-second Street were busy all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperation from builders and material men . What was said to be the first loan here to be insured under the Federal program was reported by the Heating and Plumbing Finance Corporation , a subsidiary of the American Radiator and Standard Sanitary Corporation . The loan covered installation of a steamheating system in a Brooklyn house formerly heated by stoves . It amounted to $343.58 . Albert L. Deane , Deputy Administrator of the FHA , in a telegram to L. H. Goldbright Jr. , vice president and treasurer of the finance corporation , said the Federal officials were " tremendously encouraged " over the response throughout the country by financial institutions . Some of the Wall Street banks with branches doing a neighborhood business in outlying sections of the city will receive applications for housing loans directly . These institutions have been prepared for several days to give immediate attention to such applications . Other banks , however , which deal exclusively with the commercial banking needs of larger corporations and wealthy firms and individuals are extremely unlikely ever to receive an application from some householder seeking to install a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home . Such banks , incidentally , are not geared to handle loans of the small size involved in the housing program and could do so only at great inconvenience and possibly loss to themselves . By working through their correspondents , banks of this character can put their large resources behind the FHA program and may , incidentally , stimulate increased interest in that program on the part of banks in other sections of the country . Savings banks , Morris Plan Banks , industrial loan banks , building and loan associations and other non-commercial banking institutions are expected to receive the major part of the applications placed in this area by home owners . These institutions are eager to undertake the business and have prepared to facilitate the placing of the loans rapidly . As bankers pointed out yesterday , there is no need to urge cooperation in the FHA program upon those banks which would be likely to get this type of business . Under the rules laid down by the FHA , which include the stipulation that the borrower must have an income equal to five times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it appears evident that only safe loans will be made . The additional safety factor of government insurance against losses , equal to 20 per cent of the total amount of loans made by a lending institution , plus the facilities offered for Immediate conversion of these loans into cash at 100 per cent of face value , appears to make ouch transactions extremely attractive . A few bankers , in fact , consider that the regulations may prove a trifle stringent to some of the would-be borrowers . Local banks began yesterday to receive from the FHA their certificates of insurance authorizing them to go ahead with loans and guaranteeing them the right to sell such loans to the FHA at any time and to receive reimbursement against any losses up to any amount equal to 20 per cent of the total volume of loans made . The banks immediately signed acceptances of these certificates and , in accordance with instructions from James A. Moffett , Federal Housing Administrator , wired to Washington their acceptance . Apart from their own interest in the housing project , bankers here have discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are hopeful that the loans may give a broad stimulus to businesses engaged in or related to construction work . While these industrialists consider it likely that the FHA may never reach the $1,000,000,000 total of housing loans which has been discussed , they believe that the expenditure of even half this amount in repairs and improvements to homes throughout the country would have a. favorable effect upon their businesses and indirectly upon industry as a whole ,                     