@@722550

The Administration is looking into the possibilities of speeding up Federal spending as an alternative to a quick tax cut to invigorate the economy . A nigh official said today , however , that blocked appropriations bills prevented any substantial moves in that direction at the present time . The Budget Bureau is doing preliminary paper . work to be ready in the event that , on passage of these bills , President Kennedy adopts an accelerated spending policy , as he did early in 1961 when the economy was in difficulties . Feuding between chairmen of the Senate and House Appropriations Committees has tied up all the money bills for the current fiscal year . Federal agencies , meantime , have to operate at last year 's levels or lower in cases where the appropriations committees have written cuts into the pending bills . Funds Offer Possibilities Trust funds , like those that pay veterans life insurance dividends , may offer some possibilities . For example , Mr. Kennedy , ten days after taking office , announced that he had directed the Veterans Administration to advance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total payable over the entire calendar year , $258,000,000 , was made available in the first quarter of the year . In addition , a special dividend payment of $218,000,000 was made in late June and in July of 1961 . The theory for this kind of executive action is that it pumps potential consumer spending into the economy , which , though rising above last year 's activity levels , shows signs of slowing down . The alternative , an immediate cut in personal and corporate income taxes , would in theory stimulate investment and spending . Tax Cut More Effective A tax cut , even in the relatively low range of $5,000,000 , - 000 that some members of Congress have mentioned , would release far more money than an accelerated spending policy would produce . President Kennedy is said to be reluctant to push for a tax cut now because , in view of the existing legislative snarls , it might jewardize the rest of his program . This includes tax reform and reductions planned for next year . One of the simplest directives that the President could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order all Federal agencies to prroceed immediately with all the buying and construction they planned for the rest of this fiscal year . That was his first executive action under the accelerated spending policy in 1961 . Such an order would have limited value now because no appropriations bills have been passed . Highway construction money , which comes from a trust fund rather than by way of appropriations , is already going out on . an accelerated basis . It can not be speeded much more unless the states raise more matching money . An increase in the money available for housing loans to low-income farmers offers a possibility for administrative action . This is being studied . Some of the sources available to the President early in 1961 are not very useful now . Then , for instance , a speed-up in tax refunds was useful , but it is not meaningful now . Cutting the interest rates on Federally insured home loans would not have much effect , officials say , because private financing opportunities already seem to be adequate . No major new money requests are Contemplated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration 's emergency public works bill . It has passed the Senate and , in another form , is out of the House committee , but passage does not appear immiment . Two Republican members of Congress called for tax relief today . Senator Clifford P. Case of New Jersey said in a broadcast* , " A tax cut ought to be made and ought to be made now . " Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona said in a newsletbe that the $1,500,000,000 tax relief given to business this week in the form of depreciation allowances should have been more substantial to spur the replacement of about $100,000,000,000 in obsolete factory machinery .                     