@@714950

Nationalism tutu grown in Canada since the Korean war , fostered by prosperity and by mixed prejudices against the United States . Some Canadians , conspicuously newspaper editors , Ottawa c o r respondents and radio talkers are more critical of Americanism than of communism . Others are repelled by the corruption in government , the wholesale military conscription and the waste of tax money which they see across the border . Graft and the draft are unknown in this country , and taxes are lower than the American rates on most incomes . They are expected to be reduced another 10 or 15 per cent soon after the United States elections , Think of Canada First The patriotism in Canada today is notable compared with the lack of patriotism of the Truman Democrats and Truman Republicans . Canadians think of Canada first . " We must remember it Is Canada first and foremost , " a meeting of Young Liberals was told recently by Lester B. Pearson , minister for external affairs , who is best known to the world as an oratorical supporter of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared in parliament some time ago that it is a duty to consider conditions in Canada more than conditions in any other country . Canadians are proud that conditions never have been better , and that the future promises to see this nation become even wealthier than the United States . Some boast that it already is . Called Most Prosperous ' We are prabably today the most prosperous country in the world , " Lionel Chevries , transport minister in the federal cabinet , said the other day .. " Certainly we are the one that has the soundest and most stable economy . " Canadians hail the fact that their dollar is now worth more than the American dollar , which Louts et . Laurent has been a shock to many American tourists who used to gain 10 per cent on their currency when they came to Canada . The reversal of the traditional relative values of Canadian and American dollars has given a tremendous boost to national morale . . /t is the subject of constant gleeful comment from Halifax to Vic-1 toria . Two years ago Canadians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American money they could get , but now they scoff at it . " Do n't take any American nickels ! " Canadians admonish one another . Nears 21st Birthday American coins are about as hard to pass as wooden money . Banks charge an extra discount for accepting them . Canadians ca n't wait to enjoy the reaction of next season 's tourists to this new rule . " Adolescent " is a word Canadians sometimes apply to their country today . Prime Minister St. Laurent calls it a " budding nation . " The colonies that became Canada were united into a dominion soon after the American Civil war , in 1867 , but Canada 's 21st birthday as a sovereign state will not be until Dec. 11 this year , the anniversary of the 1931 Statute of Westminster . So recently a colony , Canada now is feeling its independence , bumptiously sensitive to the opinions of others . I : holds half a continent of almost untouched natural resouces needed by the United States . Voice Is Changing Its voice is changing into a firm Canadian timbre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since President Truman plunged the United States into the Korean war . Canadians have no inclination to take an equal share with Americans , and reluctance has led to withdrawal into increased nationalism . Talk of annexation , not uncommon before Korea , has been drowned out by the war and by the boom of prosperity . Assertive pride is a feature of the new sense of nationhood . In speeches , - magazine articles , editorials and lectures , Canadians talk it up about " this Canada of ours , " " our great land , " and " OUT dollar. ? They refer to " the Canadian genius , " claim to have the most wonderful form of government In the world , and become involved in confused discussions of the " British connection , " which they all agree Americans dd not understand . Differences Are Noted Thefe is ? much profound consideration of " differences " between Americans and . Canadians , altho the most obvious one  --  that Canadians usually eat with the fork in the left hand ? is overlooked . Gov . Gen. Vincent Massey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he can tell Canadians from Americans at a distance by the way they walk . Arthur R. M. Lower , the historian , agrees with Massey in his latest book , and claims to have spotted another difference : Canadians are less sinful It is taken as axiomatic that Americans are more immature than Canadians , talk more about money , and are more boastful . " Wherever I go , all over Canada , nearly every one I meet agrees that there is no better ' country to live:lin anywhere on earth , " - Prime Minister St. Laurent said in a speech last spring . There are lots of people outside Canada who feel that way , toe . " After a cross-country trip this fall , he added another comment : r " Canadians can almost overtake the Americans in superlatives. "                     