@@697150

James Quinn , a 30 year old aviator of Brooklyn , charged in an affidavit filed in the West Farms court today that his former employer , J. Morgan Corbett , a wealthy Boston aviator and real estate operator , had him kidnaped and tortured In an attempt to make him tell the whereabouts of Mrs. Philomena Cecilia Corbett , the realty man 's estranged wife . Quinn , who was named as co-respondent in the divorce suit which Corbett , a Boston social registerite , filed against his Wife last November , but later dropped . Ile appeared in the West Farms court today as the chief complaining witness against three alleged employes of Corbett  --  Arthur Hamel , 29 , an aviator of Haverhill , Mass. ; Edward Kendall , 29 , of North Reading , Mass. , also an aviator , and Edward Klein , 30 , of New York . All three were arrested in a room In the Hotel Belmont which had been engaged by Corbett . Nose Broken ; Eyes Blackened . Quinn appeared In court in bandages . His nose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his affidavit Bald that on March 26 he received a telephone call from a , ' " Mr. Marsh " asking him to go to an address in The Bronx to overhaul an airplane . Marsh agreed to pay $50 a week and provide him with a cottage . On the evening of April 1 , Quinn said , , as he finished dinner In the cottage , the door opened and five men , including the three defendants , a man unknown to him , and Corbett , entered . The unidentified man shoved a. gun against his ribs , he said , while Corbett picked ' lip a milk bottle and : Amick him full on the head with it . Klein then beat him about the head with a cane , according to the affidavit . peaten Unconscious , Quinn fought back , but soon became unconscious . When he came to he was ! king in a bed stained with blood ' and Corbett was tying him to the bedstead with ropes . ' As Quinn struggled In his bonds , the affidavit alleges , Corbett again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once more became unconscious . His captors aroused him by pouring cold water over his body , Quinn said . Twisting his arms and legs , they demanded that he tell them where to find Mrs. Corbett , Quinn charges . When he failed to give the information , the men beat him continuously for several hours , he said . Finally he told them he was bleeding internally , and that if they did not stop he would die , and they would all face the electric chair . At length the men withdrew , and after a conference , Corbett , Klein , and the unknown man departed , leaving Kendall and Hamel to guard the prisoner , the affidavit states . All that night , Quinn asserts , he lay on the bed , bound and without medical attention . At 10 tho nest morning his two captors left , apparently to telephone for instructions . While they were gone Quinn wriggled free and escaped . Quinn , before driving away from the West Farm court with two detec. tives in a police ? automobile , was asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you ran away with Mrs. Corbett ? " Well , you can flip a coin , " replied Quinn cryptically . The prisoners admitted today that they had known Quinn for some time Kendal , who was the most communicative of the three , said he had thought " the whole thing was legit ! . ? mate . " Mrs. Corbett Former Model . Corbett , a former flyer , had employed several pilots in his real estate business . At Provincetown he Bevel ; oped an exclusive summer colony known as Mayflower Heights . His wife , the former Philomena Silva , had been much sought after as a model by New York and Boston artists . One portrait of Mrs. Corbett , executed by Lytton Buehler , was the subject of considerable attention at an exhibit in Boston a few seasons ago                     