@@728550

President Nixon today nominated Harry Andrew Blackmun of Minnesota to the Supreme Court . Judge Blackmun , a member of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit , is regarded in the legal profession as a scholarly and mildly conservative judge . Mr. Nixon 's third choicb for the vacancy created by the resignation of Abe Fortas was announced by Ronald L. Ziegler , the White House press secretary , late this afternoon . The President did not appear and did not issue a statement . Mr. Ziegler made the announcement while standing on the same small platform in the new White House press headUnited Press International Judge Harry A. Blackmun in St. Louis yesterday . quarters where Mr. Nixon last Thursday accused the Senate of hypocrisy and regional bias for refusing to approve his first two nominees for the vacancy . The two men , both SouthernA Prolonged Examination by Senate Panel Seen ers , were Clement F. Haynsworth Jr . and G. Harrold Carswell . The Senate rejected Judge Haynsworth last November and Judge Carswell last Wednesday . Judge Blackmun will also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Capitol Hill was inconclusive . On the basis of the Senate 's recent performance , however , it seemed likely that Judge Blackmun would be subjected to prolonged and searching examination by the Senate Judiciary Committee . Until that time , there may be a reluctance on the part of many Senators to commit themselves . Senator Sam J. Ervin Jr .. , Democrat of North Carolina and a senior member of the Judiciary Committee , refused to comment . Senator Birch Bayh , Democrat of Indiana , who led the fight against Judge Carswell , was out of town . Senator Philip A. Hart , Michigan Democrat who assisted Mr. Bayh , said that he regretted the President did not choose a " qualified Southerner . " Among influential Senators who praised the choice were Robert P. Griffin , Michigan Republican and minority whip ; Roman L. Hruska of Nebraska , ranking Republican on the Judi ciary Committee , and Walter F. Mondale , Democrat of Minnesota . Mr. Mondale called Judge Blackmun " an excellent choice " , and predicted that " barring un- ' foreseen circumstances , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indictment of the Senate last Thursday , Mr. Nixon said that in view of the Senate 's apparent hostility toward a Southern conservative , he would henceforth search outside the South for another nominee to fill the vacancy . He also said , however , that he would not yield in his quest for a " strict constructionist " ? a man who , in his view , would interpret the Constitution cautiously and narrowly . Mr. Ziegler told newsmen that Judge Blackmun met this essential qualification . Mr. Nixon , the press secretary said , conferred with the 61-year-old judge at the White House on Friday for 45 minutes and was " highly impressed by Judge Blackmun 's personal qualities . " The President was further described as believing the judge " to be a man of outstanding abilities " and as having " great respect for his legal skills and judicial temperament . " In addition , Mr. Ziegler said , the President " considers Judge Blackmun to be a strict constructionist . " The nomination of Judge Blackmun had been widely rumored here for several days , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six candidates and that Mr. Nixon had not made a final decision until 10 o'clock this morning , following a telephone review of the judge 's qualifications with Attorney General John N. Mitchell . Judge Blackmun , a graduate of Harvard and Harvard Law School , is an old and close friend of Chief Justice Warren Earl Burger , who reportedly urged his nomination upon Mr. Mitchell . The judge also received the warm endorsement of former Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey , who spoke approvingly of him after the judge 's name surfaced in press speculation late last week . Mr. Nixon 's personal conference with Judge Blackmun last Friday represented a departure from practice . He did not meet either Judge Haynsworth or Judge Carswell before he nominated them , relying instead almost entirely on the advice of Mr. Mitchell and Deputy Attorney General Richard Kleindienst . No explanation was offered for the meeting . Debates Recalled During the long and acrimonious Senate debates over Mr. Nixon 's earlier nominees , questions were raised about Judge Haynsworth 's stock transactions while a member of the bench and Judge Carswell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charges took the Nixon Administration by surprise , and for this reason it was widely believed here that the President would take his time before naming another candidate for the vacancy . In his attack on the Senate last Thursday , however , Mr. Nixon said that he did not think a President should leave a vacancy on the Court " when it can be filled . " Mr. Ziegler added today that Mr. Nixon was able to move quickly because Judge Blackmun had appeared on the Justice Department 's original list of candidates last year and much was already known about his record .  --   - -  Judge Is ' Overwhelmed ' ST . LOUIS , April 14 ( UPDJudee Blackmun said today that he had " been called both a liberal and a conservative " and did not know which he was . He held a news conference in his chambers at the circuit court a few minutes after . the White House announced that he had been nominated for the Supreme Court . " I 'm overwhelmed , " he said of the appointment . " It 's a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 've been a nominal Republican all my life , but I have n't been active . " He said that he had never met President Nixon until last week when he was in Washington but that he had known Chief Justice Burger " a long time . " Asked it his friendsliii , with Mr. Burger had had anything to do with his nomination , he replied : " I would n't know about that . "                     