@@707250

AMERICANS DRIVE FOR EASTERN SICILY Seventh Army Races to Join Big Offensive on Enemy 's Last Major Defenses By DREW MIDDLETON By Wireless to Tem Nnw YORK Trams . ALLIED HEADQUARTERS IN NORTH AFRICA , July 26 ? The victorious American Seventh Army smashed eastward today to join in the general assault on the " Etna line , " taking 7,000 More prisoners including six generals and an admiral . More than 70,000 prisoners are already in the Allies ' hands . The Germans rushed the Twenty-ninth Motorized Infantry Division into the Messina bridgehead , increasing the number of Axis combat troops in northeastern Sicily to about 97,000 . Of these , about 52,000 are Germans . Planes Attack Northern Port While the ground forces concentrated for what may be the final struggle of the campaign , Allied planes attacked the north coast port of Milazzo , through which the Germans have been moving supplies and troops since Messina was made virtually useless by Allied bombs . The port was heavily bombed by Royal Air Force Bostons and Mitchells of the United // AMERICANS DRIVE FOR EASTERN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Other Bostons and Baltimores harried road transport in northeast Sicily as the enemy movement on the roads  --  the first in many days  --  attracted swarms of light and medium bombers . The scene of the heaviest fighting along the " Etna line " , shifted from the British front to the center , where the Canadians are hacking their way through the stubborn lines of the Germans ' Fifteenth Armored Division , and to the north , where the Seventh Army has been launched against the least stabilized sector of the enemy line . The Canadians have advanced twelve miles , The United Press said . Allied troops on the coast have captured Cefalu , fifty miles east of Palermo , according to an Algiers broadcast recorded by The Associated Press . It was relatively quiet along the British Eighth Army front . The British , who have been engaging a large percentage of the German troops on the island for more than a week , continued to probe the enemy 's lines . There was no indication of a general advance in this sector , although the British are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire . While the British continue to pin down the main enemy strength , the American and Canadian forces advance against less well fortified parts of the enemy line . Canadian infantry that struck northeastward after the capture of Enna is slowly driving the Fifteenth Armored Division before it . In the north , the thirty-mile sector to be held by the Italians is being hurriedly fortified while the Americans rush eastward across the island . The enemy 's ability to defend his " Etna line " appears to depend on the speed with which the Americans move . While a spearhead of tanks and motorized infantry thrust eastward , the remainder of the American forces mopped up in the western part of the island . The advance elements encountered some resistance but the Italians seemed incapable of prolonged defense , even when they were holding strong positions . A few rounds from the mobile guns of the American artillery and determined infantry attacks on a small scale served to break the most formidable positions . The Americans have not yet reached the area that the enemy is expected to hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defenses may stiffen when this line , west of the Nicosia San Stefano di Camastra road , is encountered . The identification of the German Twenty-ninth Motorized Infantry Division within the Messina bridgehead brings the total of the German ' ormations in Sicily to about three and a half divisions . This division was destroyed at Stalingrad and later reformed . The present chaotic condition in Italy may force the Germans to employ this division on the northern face of the line against the Seventh Army . No effects of Premier Mussolini 's replacement by Marshal Pietro Badoglio have as yet been reported from the front . But two things are worth remembering . A great proportion of the Italian prisoners is anti-Fascist . The remainder of the Italians should fight harder under the leadership of the King and Marshal Badoglio than under Fascist command ? if Italy remains in the war . It is difficult to see how they could fight any worse under the new command than they did in the past two weeks . Aside from the . bombing of Milazzo and attacks on road convoys in northeast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the ground forces , the Northwest African Air Forces ' operations were on a reduced scale yesterday . Coastal command patrols were maintained throughout the day and fighters flew their usual sweeps over the ground forces . Three enemy planes were destroyed , while one Allied air craft is missing . Beaufighters from the Middle East bombed an airdrome at Kalamata in southern Greece . Hits were scored on administration buildings and runways . In the same area a radio station at Kyparissia was successfully attacked .                     