@@742950

When the Administration of President Hayes went into power , ho and his friends made many declarations to the effect that no one should be appointed to office under it for reasons of a per . sonal character . It was also particularly stated that the President was determined that , as far as it was in his power to prevent it , no relative or intimate connection of his or of his family should be appointed to office . Among the letters which Gen. Arthur , while Collector at New-York , received from members of the Administration , and which were recently read in the executive session of the Senate , there were at least three or four which are not exactly in accord with this avowed determination , One , written by the Secretary of the Treasury , asks that a young man named Corwin be appointed to " a good place , " because he is the son of the President 's law partner , and another requests a place for a gentleman named Hoyt a relative of Mr. John Sherman . The letters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a young man who wrote a life of President Hayes , and of which mention has already been made in these dispatches , reveal the fact that the first place asked for by the Administration in his name was the most important one of Deputy Collector , an officer who must , because of his many and complicated duties , be promoted from lower positions , and after having had long experience . Gen. Arthur communicated this fact to the President , at the same time telling Mr. Howard positively that he would not appoint him to a Deputy Collectorship ; that all the gentlemen occupying the positions named were efficient officers , and that he would not remove either of them to , please any man . Itwas then insisted , as the letters in question show , that Howard should have some other place . Since the confirmation of Collector Merritt , the President has written him a long private communication which , if the reports of the few persons who know of its contents are to be trusted , is a much more creditable production than any of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is understood that the letter in question , after congratulating Mr. Merritt upon his confirmation , assures him in substance that the Administration has no warfare to make upon Gen. Arthur or upon any friends of his ; that no Customhouse employe who does his duty shall be removed because he is known to be a supporter of Gen. Arthur , and that in any Custom-house appointments which are hereafter to be made no discrimination shall be made against those who are known to have sustained the ex-Collector . It is understood further that the letter informs Mr. Merritt that the Administration desires very much to heal any differences which may exist among Republican leaders in New-York City , and to that end that every possible consideration consistent with the public service shall be shown to all the political friends of Gen. Arthur . 