@@740950

Grant 's name is doubtless a tower or strengtn to the Republicans , for he has a firm and abiding hold upon the confidence of the people , irrespective of parties . From the hour when , amid the thickest gloom of the war , the victory of Donelson'revived the drooping spirits of those who were struggling to preserve the Union . he has had a lodgment in the popular heart from which neither calumny , nor clamor , nor prejudice , nor faction has been able to ctrtre him . Though calculating political leaders may have averted their faces from him . the unselfish sentiment of the nation has never hesitated to regard him as the soldier . to whose genius . skill and firmness are due in large measure the salvation of the Republic . Since the close of the war his conduct in the discharge of difficult and delicate trusts has convinced reflecting minds that he is a wine and prudent connector , not prone to extreme views , but moderate and conciliatory in his policy , and , while clothed with . almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country , so exercising his authority that no citizen has felt the undue pressure of his hand . Throughout this turbulent and trying Period he has been scrupulously observant of the laAVS , never seeking to evade their requirements , but always striving to fulfill their injunctions in the spirit of an urbane and considerate Magistrate . In the midst of wide-spread venality and corruption , NO MAN HAS EVER DOUBTED HIS HONESTY , THOUGH HE HAS HAD ALMOST UNLIMITED CONTROL OVER MILLIONS OF THE PUBLIC MONEY . Rig administration as General-in-Chief of the army , and as Secretary of War ad interim , is not only marked with eminent ability , but distinguished Sfor retrenchment and economy . The President ? no partial witness ? in his Message of December last to the Senate . says that " salutary reforms have been introduced by the Secretary ad interim , and great reductions of expenses have been effected under his administration of the War Department , to the saving of millions to the Treasury . " Gen. GRANT is not a politician , but a patriot . Ever since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earliest possible restoration of the insurgent States to their former relations to the Union . He has deprecated the quarrels between the Executive and Legislative departments of the Government . which have tended to retard this work , while ou his part he has labored assiduously to bring it to a successful and harmonious close . In this he has exhibited the sterling qualities of a wise and liberal statesman . If he should be elected to the , Presidency , all impartial and unprejudiced men , whether Radicals or Conservatives , and whether dwelling at the North or the South . would feel that the Union and the Constitution were safe in his hands . 