@@725350

Mayor Lindsay said yesterday that  --  he would attempt to make it " absolutely clear " to the state 's legislators that they must give the city the tax powers it needs " or the result will be financial chaos . " To this end , the Mayor said , he is marshaling facts to show that the city 's fiscal situation has reached " such a point of disrepair " that the Legislature will understand that tax legislation will have to be passed or fiscal disaster will result . " As a legislator , " Mr. Lindsay said , " I know that there is always the tendency to postpone the worst impact " of a tax program . He said he wanted to prevent that kind of procrastination . The Mayor said his tax legislation package , an inch thick , would be supported by " a mass of documents " bolstering the city 's case . He said he " hoped " the legislation would be ready the first week in March . Report Is Denied At a morning conference at City Hall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Times yesterday that his tax program was behind schedule . " We are not at all behind schedule , " Mayor Lindsay said . In his fireside chat on Jan. 19 , Mayor Lindsay said : " A team of professionals has peen working long hours since November on a comprehensive overhaul of our archaic , insufficient tax policies . Their report will be completed within a month , and I shall report to you on its contents . " Yesterday he said " nothing " was ready for disclosure now . " I hope that we can reduce the program to a simple explanation so that it will not be something so obscure that it can not be understood , " Mr. Lindsay said . ' Terribly Complicated ' He declared that he wanted " everything wrapped up " before there was any announcement of the program . He called the job " terribly complicated " and said it was " necessary to keep checking labor , business and bankers to determine the acceptability " of his proposed program , Thus far the city 's new Economic Development Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not been consulted on any phase of Mr. Lindsay 's proposed tax program . Nor have the bankers most immediately concerned with the city 's borrowing program . Nor has the city 's Temporary Commission on City Finances . There was , however , indication yesterday that the Temporary Commission on City Finances would be called into consultation by the Mayor 's fiscal advisers some time next ' week . The date for the meeting has not been set .. The urgency of an Immediate tax program has been underlined several times by members of , the commission , including Earl B. Schwulst , : its chairman . On Jan. 19 Mr. Schwulst said , when asked what the deadline would be for the Imposition of a new , broadly based tax : " The deadline was yesterday or the day before yesterday , or at best , perhaps tomorrow or the day after that . Mayor Lindsay is under the gun and he will have to move fast " . The statement was made on the same day that Mayor Lindsay promised his tax program " within a month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his tax adviser , first undertook the job of working on , the tax program he estimated that it would not be ready until June . But Mr. Lindsay said that on his urging Mr. Drabkin was teleseoping his work so it would be ready sooner . Recently Mr. Drabkin said it would not have been possible to put a new program together in less than a year if it were not for the spadework done by the Temporary Commission on City Finances . The commission In recent weeks , Mr. Drabkin and his team of nine tax lawyers have worked 12 to 18 hours a day in preparing alternate programs for the Mayor 's final decision . Their proposals were handed to the Mayor on Feb. 10 . The legislation they are preparing for approval by the Legislature will come to 400 pages . The crucial decision Mayor Lindsay.must make is on a proposal for a broadly based city income tax supported by fiscal advisers both in and out of his administration as well as by the Temporary Commission on City Finances . Some political advisers , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad politically and have argued Against it . By law the Mayor must present a balanced executive budget on April 15 . His new tax program must have won approval in Albany before that date , unless Mayor Lindsay is to resort to the kind of " borrownow , pay-later " approach used by Mayor Robert F. Wagner . Last year Mayor Wagner presented what some said had only the appearance of a balanced budget . The legality of Mayor Wagner 's approach is now being tested in the state 's highest court .                     