@@701050

The SEC today invited banks to list their shares on national securities exchanges . This action was in keeping with the trend of thought in the commission , which is to transfer active securities to the exchanges . keeping for the counter market the function of a seasoning ground for new securities . The commission made its invitation something of a command ny stating that it could see no ground for exercising its exempting powers in order to give otherwise unlisted bank shares the type of collateral value that will be denied them as unregistered securities under section . ( Cl of the Securities Exchange Act when the New York Produce Exchange does away with its securities market , on February 28 . Reserve Board Ruling In connection with the closing of the securities market of the New York Produce Exchange . the Federal Reserve Board has ruled that creditors may retain until July 1 , 1937 , unregistered non-exempt securities as collateral behind any credit initially extended prior to October 1 . 1934 Such collateral , the board held , shall rot be the basis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value in determining the maximum loan value of the securities in the account . The Board pointed out that the Securities Exchange Act does not require liquidation as a result of the action of the Produce Exchange inasmuch as it does not force a broker or dealer to sell , or to compel his customers to sell accurities which cease to be - registered securities . " The commission extended its invitation to the " cream " of the over-the-counter securities market to list their securities , through publication of an excerpt of a letter of Chairman Joseph P. Kennedy written in answer to many queries regarding the status of the bank stocks , which have been enjoying unlisted trading privileges on the New York Produce Exchange for some time . Widely DIstrihotea Mr. Kennedy 's letter asserted that the commission felt it was not in the public interest to exempt banks from registration . " Examination reveals that most of the 26 bank stocks admitted to unlisted trading pnvileges on the New York Produce Exchange are widely distriouted ? " the letter staled . The letter cittd figures with reference to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banks had a wider distribution than many industrial issues novt listed on the New York Stock Exchange such as American Can . American Smelting . American Tobacco , Chrysler , Eastman Kodak and General Foods , according to Mr. Kennedy 's letter . " The commission finds no reason why issues of such wide distribution should not be listed , " the chairman said . Mr. Kennedy pointed out that the commission is drafting a form for the registration of hank stocks , but called attention to form 7 , which is now available to those issuers , " who may thus acquire for their security holders the benefits of registration upon a national securities exchange . " Form 7 is used for the temporary registration of securities on an exchange . Insurance Stocks Although the chairman 's letter failed to mention insurance stocks , which also have been enjoying unlisted trading privileges on the New York Produce Exchange , quarters close to the commission say that the same feeling prevails to them . It is not likely that The banks will be anxious to list their shares on one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both bank and insurance stocks in the over-thecounter category . At this time , the commission only has the authority to offer banks , insurance companies and other concerns an opportunity to list their securities . It can , however , recommend to Congress that additional legislation be provided forcing these companies to register their securities on an exchange , if it is unsuccessful in its more peaceful efforts to secure listing . The Letter The text of Chairman Kennedy 's statement follows : " As of an earlier date . I wrote you to the effect that the commission had been aware of the problem of the status of certain bank stocks as collateral in brokerage loans after February 28. 1935 , the effective date for the closing of the securities division of the New York Produce Exchange . I stated that the commission was aware that these stocks would , under section 7 ( C ) of the Securities Exchange Act , lose the collateral value that they had theretofore possessed as a result of being admitted to unlisted trading privileges on the New York Produce Exchange . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and would shortly reach a conclusion upon the subject . A number of these securities arc now held in brokerage accounts . The Federal Reserve Board has pointed out in its release No. 41 that the fact that these securities will lose their collateral value by ceasing to possess the status of registered securities as of February 28. 1935. will not result in any enforced liquidation of these securities when held as collateral in brokerage accounts . " The question of enforced liquidation having thus been disposed of , there remains the problem of whether any exemption should be granted to these securities so as to entitle them to privileges which appertain to registered securities . A great many arguments have been presented to the commission concerning the desirability of not listing bank stocks , and of giving them . by the exempting powers of the commission , the status of registered securities . In regard to the bank stocks now admitted to unlisted trading privileges on the New York Produce Exchange and which on February 2 . S , 1935 , will lose their registered status , the commission has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ granting them an e-xemption but concludes that it is not in the public interest to do so . Eleven Issues Cited " Examination reveals that most of the 26 bank stocks admitted to unlisted trading privileges on the New York Produce Exchange are widely distributed Figures available with reference to 11 of them show that in 1933 there were 333,181 stockholders in these 11 banks Of these 11 issues , 3 of them have a wider distribution than many industrial issues now listed on the New York Stock Exchange such as American Can . American Smelting , American Tobacco , Chrysler Eastman Kodak . General Foods . International Harvester , Sears Roebuck . Union Carbide and Woolworth . The commission finds no reason ? h.7. issues of such wide distribution should not be listed on a national securities exchange and thus it sees no ground for exercising its exempting powers to give these stocks the type of collateral value that will be denied them as unregistered stocks under section 7 ( CI of the Securities Exchange Act when the securtties division of the New York Produce Exchange , closes . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : he listed with certainly as great a facility on a national securities exchange a= other stocks The commission is now preparing a torm for the registration of such stocks . In the meantime , a provisional form known as form 7 , is available to these issuers , who may thus acquire for their security nolders the benefits of registration upon a national securities exchange . "                     