@@717750

WASHINGTON , March ** Senate elected Senator James 0 . Eastland , a far-right-wing Mississippi Democrat and a bitter pro-segregationist , as chairman of its powerful Judiciary Committee today . The decision was by unrecorded voice vote . It followed a recommendation of the Democratic Steering Committee based on a seniority rule that has been broken only three times in 175 years . Mr. Eastland succeeds to a chairmanship made vacant by the death of Senator Harley M. Kilgore , Democrat of West Virginia . Two liberal Democratic Senators , Wayne Morse of Oregon and Herbert . H. Lehman of New York , appealed to the Senate to put aside its long custom in this case and not to permit Senator Eastland to ascend the chair . The voices of Senators Morse and Lehman could be heard loudly calling " no " when the vote was put . It appeared from the press gallery that perhaps one or two other voices also had been in the negative . Senator Eastland was not present . So far as could be determined there was no Republican opposition . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil rights legislation and // over proposed amendments to the Constitution . It has a form of Power over all the Federal courts , including the Supreme Court , in that appointees to Federal benches ordinarily must first be cleared by the committee before being confirmed by the Senate itself . Senator Eastland has denounced the Supreme Court 's decision outlawing segregation as the work of a bench " indoctrinated and brainwashed by leftwing pressure groups . " He has been associated with the activities of white citizens councils in the South . His critics have charged him with promoting nullification of the court 's ruling . The Democratic Steering Committee 's recommendation was reported to have been unanimous . It was understood also to have decided to put a liberal Democratic Senator , Matthew M. Neeley of West Virginia , on the Judiciary Committee , on which the Democrats because of Mr. Kilgore 's death are now entitled to another seat . The mere challenge to Mr. Eastland 's elevation was an extraordinary event for the Senate . Senator Morse told his colleagues that he spoke " reluctantly and even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to Senator Eastland . While there was no question of Mr. Eastland 's right to sit in the Senate as a chosen representative of Mississippi , Mr.I Morse declared , he was now to become an agent of the Senate itself as a committee chairman . Senator Eastland , Senator , Morse contended , had demonstrated that he was not suitable to head a committee having powers over a judiciary that he had so denounced . Mr. Eastland , Mr. Morse declared , was reported to have gone so far as to indicate that he would oppose Senate confirmation of a Presidential , appointee , Simon Sobeloff , to the Circuit Court of Appeals because Mr. Sobeloff was an advocate of racial integration in the public schools . Mr. Eastland 's colleague from Mississippi , Senator John C. Stennis , made no defense of the " white supremacy " and similar statements repeatedly made by Senator Eastland . Senator Stennis has been as moderate on the segregation issue as Mr. Eastland has been vehement . Mr. Stennis publicly commended Senators Morse and Lehman for having spoken in an " impersonal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be barred from advancement to the chairmanship on his record and on the Senate 's custom of seniority . Senator Lehman , in what actually amounted to a wounding debate among the Democrats over the segregation and allied issues , called Senator Eastland " a symbol of racism in America " and ' ' a symbol of defiance to the Constitution of the United States as interpreted by the Supreme Court . " One of Mr. . Eastland 's statements , Mr. Lehman said , was that " New York , for all practical purposes , is a Communist state . " One of the Democratic patriarchs of the Senate , Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky , a forme/ Vice President , called on his colleagues to support Mr. East . land for the chairmanship to up . hold the seniority system . His many years in public life , Mr. Barkley said , had convinced him that whatever the imperfections of that system there was no substitute so good . Senator Barkley made it clear that he wholly disagreed with Senator Eastland on many Matters but said at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sincerity and ability . " Clarence Mitchell , director of the Washington bureau of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , issued a statement asserting : " The Senate of the United States has just voted . to put James Eastland * " in its most powerful judicial position.With the exception of the two Senators who opposed this resolution all others who were present when the vote was taken are guilty of looking the other way when a mad dog is loose in the streets of justice . " Support for Mr. Eastland per ' sonally and the seniority custom in general was voiced by several colleagues during the debate , including Senators Allen J. Ellender Sr. of Louisiana , John L. McClellan of Arkansas and Olin D. Johnston of South Carolina , all Democrats , and Thomas H. Kuchel , Republican of California . The Senate Republicans for the most part sat silent as the Democrats debated the issue among themselves . 