@@702750

After more than six years of bitter legal strife swift court action in the Scottsboro mass rape case today freed four Negroes and left five others under sentences ranging from twenty years ' imprisonment to death . Prose cutors agreed to dismissal of charges against two who were " juveniles , " one who was ill , and one who was " Practically blind " when possemen dragged nine Negroes from a freight train at Paint Rock , Ala. , on March 25 , 1931 . The charges were rape in a gondola car upon two white women mill workers , Ruby Bates and Victoria Price . Of the five other Negroes , four were under sentence for rape after a series of retrials . The fifth confessed stabbing a deputy sherif while in custody and Judge W. W. Callahan sentenced him to 20 years in prison . Status of Defendants . Twice returned to Alabama by the United States Supreme court , the case left the prisoners in this status today : Clarence Norris , convicted for the third time , death . Andy Wright , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convicted fourth time , 75 years . Charles Weems , convicted second time , 75 years . 021e Powell , convicted once of rape , who pleaded guilty to assault with intent to murder , 20 years . The original accusation of rape against him was dropped . Free after 6% years of jail life and court appearances were the fol-lowing : Olen Montgomery , Willie Roberson , and Eugene Williams , each convicted once and sentenced to death . Roy Wright , whose first trial ended in a jury disagreement . Convinced Justice Is Done . Prosecutors issued a statement saying they were " convinced , after going through eleven trials , that the defendants who have been tried are guilty of raping Victoria Price in the gondola car as she recited upon the witness stand . " Samuel S. Leibowitz of New York , chief of defense counsel , had challenged her story as " perjured " in the retrial of Charles Weems , which ended in conviction today . The prosecutors said her testimony is corroborated by reputable witnesses . " But after careful consideration of all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Defendants Willie Roberson and Olen Montgomery are not guilty , " the statement continued . The protestations of innocence by both Roberson and Olen Montgomery were termed " plausible . " " Olen Montgomery was practically blind , " the prosecutors said . " The state is without proof other than the prosecutrix as to his being in the gondola car , and we feel that it is a case of mistaken identity .. . " Eugene Williams and Roy Wright , were juveniles at the time this crime was committed . . .. One was 12 years old and the other was 13 . And while they were in the gondola car when the rape was committed , counsel for the state think that in view of the fact they have bene in jail for 6 , h years , the ends of justice would be met by releasing these two juveniles . on condition that they leave the state , never to return . " Rush From Jail to Freedom . After being freed , Montgomery , Roberson , Williams , and Roy Wright ran out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by two state highway patrolmen and Leibowitz . It was predicted by a high source the defense " will drop the appeals in the Heywood Patterson and Andy Wright cases , and the governor will extend clemency to Clarence Norris . " Thus was foreseen the end to the case based upon the cry of Mrs. Price and Ruby Bates that they were raped while riding the freight train to their Huntsville , Ala. , homes after a trip in search of work . The United States Supreme court once set aside death sentences be . cause the defendants were " without benefit of adequate counsel " in the original trials , and later held Negroes systematically were excluded from the juries which handled the case . Negroes were drawn in the jury panel for each of the last series of trials , but none served .                     