@@742550

objects to England fighting their battles again . Germany , he says , is not without her danger , which is an alliance between Prance and Russia . Prince Bismarck knows very itch that if Russia were to obtain Constantinople , ho would run the risk of finding himself hemmed in between his recent enemy , Franco and a more powerful Russia , Constantinople is a question between the ti German homestead and a distant Empire ( India ) to England . Though he does not consider the distant Empire so important to us as the German homestead to Prussia , he is nevertheless ready to fight for the distant Empire when it is threatened . He is not afraid of Russian ships of war passing through the Dardanelles , and he is not afraid of England going to war whenever the necessity may arrive ; but if we fight now , he argues , we shall have the responsibility of beginning a general European war . We should have no ally but Turkey , who is already exhausted and beaten . He does : not say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Empire , the endurance and bravery of the people . It is possible by heavy war taxes we could keep the war going for several campaigns , and that finally , by conscription , we should have , an Army large enough to compete with Russia . And when all these sacrifices had been made and the majority of the Englishmen he saw around him had been sent to fight , very likely to die in the mountains of Armenia and on the Isthmus of Gallipoli ? what then ' ? I give you Mr Forster 's words verbatim in reply to this question , for they constitute the best argument of the peace party , which , If it confined itself to honest argument such as this , would have far greater influence than in false descriptions of the situation and slanderous attacks on Beaconsfield : " What should we have done ? We should have pledged ourselves to support Turkey hereafter . We should have pledged ourselves to reorganize her Government , to maintain the Moslem rule over the Christians at the cost of these lives and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mortgaging. the Income of our successors , of taking away the present income of our own hard-working capitalists and laborers  --  what should we have We should have made ourselves responsible , before God and man , for the continuance of Turkish rule and Turkish tyran ? lay . Cheers . I said I Was ready to go to war to fulfill England 's duty . Is that England 's duty ? levies of " No ! " Well , I do not believe that Government , when Parliament meets , will try to plunge its into this war . I feel sure that Parliament would . resist their efforts if they tried to do so . But , ' speaking for myself , and , I think , speaking for you , .1 say there are no efforts within the pale of the Conistitution that I will not make to preserve my country from this calamity and this ' crime . " Loud and pro'longed cheers . Mr. Forster is not an extreme politician . He has more than once supported the present Ministry . He is the author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thoughtful and typical Englishman of the Liberal school , and his : views upon the duty of England at this moment will carry more weight than those of Gladstone or Bright , who have both allowed their partisanship to descend into the narrow ways of : political falsehood and intrigue . Mr. Forster is a brave man . A prominent Liberal journal screeches at him to-day , and tells him that he is no statesman , because at this same meeting at which he spoke against war , he told his constituents to their teeth that he would not vote for the separation of Church and State . The paper grants that this is a rare exhibition of courage and a proof of the depth of the speaker 's conviction , but it alienates from him a large section of his supporters and endangers his seat . According to this paper , then , a representative member is only the mouthpiece of the majority of his constituents . Mr. Forster , however , need have no fear , even if the loss of his seat should be the reward of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned in spite of the growing n. rowin bigotry and tirrogance of the political dissenters who would allow nobody to think differently from themselves and live , if they could thereby secure and maintain their " religious ascendency " in England . What with the tyranny and aggression of political dissenters outside the Church , the traitorous conduct of Ritualists within the Estab. lishment , and the onward march of Roman Catholicism everywhere , it would seem as if the old country had well laid in the seeds of a pretty quarrel at home at no very distant day . The labor disputes in the building trade were Malted yesterday by a lamentable catastrophe . At the new buildings being erected for the London and South-western Bank , Lower Norwood , ten bricklayers engaged upon a scaffold 30 feet high , congregated together to discuss the question of pay . As they were doing this in the time of their employer , they had a look-outman to warn them of the master 's approach . The nentiuel suddenly joining them , the scaffolding gave way , and all - the men were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or two dead . The scaffolding , it is said , was quite strong enough for the purpose for which it should have been used , but it was not constructed at any point for a mass-meeting on the wages question . The Master Builders ' Association state that some of the English bricklayers and stonemasons are ? returning to work . Nevertheless , 250 out - of the 320 men at work on the now Law Courts are O omens , some of whom have had to be removed to other employment in consequence of their inefficiency . From the provincial districts the daily reports of the state of the labor market are very . se'lions . In Northumberland 8,000 colliers and miners are out on strike , which keeps a numiber of outside men still unoccupied . Over 25,000 men , woman , bud children are suffering privations in consequence of this wicked perisistence of the miners in refusing the only ; terms at which the masters can at present TIM , their works . The Durham miners who are at ework are contributing $8,000 per month to ; ward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dunlop , of the Clyde Iron ' Works , find themselves compelled to offer a retduction of wages . If it is not accepted , they ' will blow out their furnaces . At Sheffield 2,000 Men employed by the leading iron-workers ! there have accepted the reduction recently proposed . Belgium is now delivering iron rails in the heart of Yorkshire at 10 shillings per ton ; less than they can be made in the district , and . yet English artisans are . found on strike in resistance to enforced reductions of wages . The distress in South Staffordshire does not decrease . The principal iron works and collierlies are closed . It is estimated that out of a population of 20,000 in Wolverhampton , 10,000 are suffering from actual want of food . At a town meeting on the subject it was stated that : Avholo streets are occupied by unemployed colliers and iron-workers . Shocking cases of destitution were mentioned . Many families had sold their bedding for bread . Death from starvation was staring hundreds in the face . The ' work-house is crowded ; a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily . From ' South Wales the reports are simply heartrending . It is said that 20,000 men are out of work , and that many of the furnaces and collieries are permanently closed . Charitable people and the national relief institutions of the district are doing all they can ; but political economists say that the present race of minors will have to die off before much change for the better can be expected . Thousands of tho men would work if they dared , but the action of the trade societies levels the good with the bad , the clover workman with the dolt , the married with the single , and the truth is , the honest and the good have not the pluck to fight the wicked and the bad . The trades unions of England are encompassing the ruin of the industrial supremacy of England .                     