@@734550

The White House Office of Management and Budget told government agencies that they generally ought to use industry standards for products they buy instead of setting their own specifications . The change is expected to save the government millions of dollars . Currently . many items cost the government extra money because they must be specially made to meet government speCifications The OMB memorandum also permits government participation in the setting of standards by private standard-setting groups , and allows government grants to the groups if their procedures meet certain fairness guidelines . Those guidelines could upset the standard-setting groups , because the guidelines would require changes in the way many of the private groups operate . Memorandum a Victory For consumer groups , however , the memorandum was a victory because , unlike earlier drafts. it did n't include language that they claimed could have delayed or weakened health and safety regulations . The memorandum said the government would grant money only to those standardsetting organizations that have " adequate and impartial mechanisms for handling substantive and procedural complaints . " Most groups don t have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be , according to Robert Schroeder , a Federal Trade Commission lawyer who is working on a proposed FTC trade rule dealing with the standard-setting process . The FTC proposal also would set fairness standards for the standard-setting process . but the proceeding for adopting the FTC rule has run into trouble on Capitol Hill . The Senate Commerce Committee has voted to bar the commission from continuing its rulemaking proceeding . The OMB memorandum would allow the FTC to help set such standards even if Congress kills the commission 's current proceeding . The memorandum says that the FTC can advise the Commerce Department . which will hand out the money for standards drafting , about the adequacy of an organization 's procedures . The OMB memorandum 's effect on the standard-setting groups will depend on how many of them want the federal funds . Let Industries Set Standards The provisions that concerned consumer groups and were dropped from the memorandum dal with the setting of industrywide standards by government agencies . The earlier drafts advised regulatory agencies , such as the Consumer Product Safety Commission , to give industries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standards governing the products they regulate . Consumer groups criticized the proposals , contending that standard-setting groups take too long to draft standards and that their standards are weak . David Baker , an 0 ) AB official , said the advice to regulatory agencies was left out because the OMB thought it did n't yet have the expertise to tell the agencies what to do . He also acknowledged that the consumer groups ' criticism " bore some weight . "                     