@@713050

Letters to The Times L.M. GRAVES.HARRISON SMITH , MEDICUS.ARTHUR W. STEVENS , Dr. N. HOWARD HYMAN , Letters to The Times Negotiating With Russia Essential Prerequisite Believed to Be Assurance of Equal Power To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORE TIMES : The flare-up in Korea has stirred renewed interest in the problem of reaching some general agreement with the Soviet . The University of Chicago Round Table discussed the question last Sunday . Negotiate an accord with Russia so that the Communist and non-Communist worlds can live in amity and the specter of atomic war be laid ? Of course ! No one in his right mind could oppose that general purpose . The question is , how ? On what terms ? A. " one-world " set-up , with limitation or abolition of national armaments , enforced by international inspection ? Russia has time and again rejected that idea . Two worlds , then , with a line dividing the area of freedom from that of tyranny ? Well , ah , perhaps yes  --  with reservations . Stated thus baldly it is a hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left to the wolves behind the iron curtain ? The East Germans and Poles ? May-be . They have never been noted for their democracy ; but the scheme has defects . The Austrians ? Hardly . The cultured and freedom-loving Czechs ? The Christian Balls , with their Western orientation in religion , culture and trade ? Turkey and Iran ? China ? Korea  --  above or below the Thirtyeighth Parallel ? The difficulties multiply . Still , we urgently need a settlement  --  if a real settlement can be had . The worst trouble is that the basis for any real and permanent settlement does not now exist . That basis is a stable equilibrium of material force , a balance of power , opprobrious as that term has now come to be . There is , indeed , at present a sort of power balance , but it is rather a temporary deadlock than a definitive , stable equilibrium . Ever since the Allied demobilization the world has been in a power stalemate , in which the American atom bomb and the Soviet Red Army have offset and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way in the peripheral states , can not use the Red Army for aggression for fear of being bombed in retaliation . The United States , if it would , could not attack Russia with the bomb , because the latter would retaliate by seizing Western Europe . If Russia acquires an adequate stockpile of A ( or H ) bombs before Western Europe creates land forces capable of stopping the Red Army , the stalemate will have been broken in Russia 's favor . Then perhaps a settlement could be negotiated  --  but on Russia 's terms and as an alternative to conquest by her . If the West gets rearmed in time , then the stalemate will have been resolved in our favor , or replaced by an approximate and more permanent balance . In such case , a reasonably equitable and lasting accord might be established . But until then any negotiations will only be used by Russia to undermine Western prestige by propaganda , and for attempts to weaken her opponents by dividing them . The first , absolutely essential , prerequisite for dealing with Russia is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power in being . To acquire that must be the first objective of our national policy . We ca n't even stay in Korea without it . L. M. GRAVES . Chicago , July 11 , 1950 . Belief in Our Cause To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : From one editorial writer to another , I would like to commend the member of your staff who wrote " Another Flag of the Free , " your lead editorial of July 13 . After listening for two weeks to the crape hangers on the radio , to the columnists who fear the worst , to the newsmen who continue to make political capital out of our present dilemma , this brief affirmation of the faith of American men and women in this country as an ally of ' the United Nations strikes a clear note through a dismal fog . American writers have been frightened for too long to express honest sentiments in patriotic and eloquent words . Our forefathers of the Revolution and the Civil War knew how to use words that came from their common sense and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announce , against custom and prejudice , that Americans believe in their cause and in the growth of the power over the world of the United Nations which we have helped bring to birth . HARRISON SMITH , Saturday Review of Literature . New York , July 13 , 1950 . To Combat Nurse Shortage To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your news item that the dearth of nurses prevents opening of a newly built hospital unit and also , results in shutting down various units in hospitals throughout the city again brings up the issue why young women have shied away from the nursing field more and more during the past ten years . A generation ago , when compare-4 tively few business callings were open to the female sex , hospitals had waiting-lists of young women eager to be admitted to work twelve hours daily , six days weekly for three years as pupil nurses . In return they received their keep and instruction . The cost of clothing and other personal expenses came from the girls ' families . But now , though the working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer willing to donate three years ' labor after which they can earn no more than their friends who entered business employment directly after high school . As I see it , the remedy lies in drastically reducing the period of training for nurses to six , or at most twelve , months . Any intelligent girl can learn all that a graduate registered nurse is taught in a year or less . The theoretic cal courses , consisting of attenuated and simplified medical studies , are bee yond the grasp of most of the girls and are forgotten promptly after the simple examinations for graduation and registration . The actual bedside nuns- ' ing and various other nursing details are quickly learned by actual and repeated practice under experienced nurses and doctors . If this realistic view is adopted , the shortage of hospital pupil and gradue ate nurses will quickly vanish . MEDIUM . Paterson , N. J. , July 5 , 1950 . For Safer Automobiles Different Construction Advocated to Place Drivers at Front of Vehicle ' 1 ' 0 THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record over the long July Fourth week end . In that period the automobile accident toll was 491 killed and some 17,000 injured . ? You list carelessness and indifference as the chief culprits and cite the need for courtesy and care . This has a familiar ring ; in fact , the same message in different words has been preached for nearly forty years . But the automobile continues to kill tens of thousands and injure upward of a million and a half year after year . If any other machine had such a record , would n't we suspect that the machine itself might be the culprit instead of always blaming the accidents on the driver 's carelessness and indifference ? . Your editorial gets close to the heart of the problem when you state that one factor contributing to the accident record is " driving at the wheel of a car which is unfit to be turned loose upon the roads . " Your reference is , of course , to cars with brakes , lights or other mechanical equipment not functioning correctly  --  in other words , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of record new cars are the ones most frequently involved in accidents . The trouble goes deeper than that . As cars are now built it is a physical impossibility to drive with unremitting care when the structure of the car places the driver in the middle of a blind spot and robs him of his view of the road close up ahead . At best , no driver has the full and unobstructed view of the road essential to safe operation of a car . Short-bodied drivers , especially , are forced to drive in large measure by pure guesswork . Present passenger cars give the driver a false sense of detachment with respect to the road . He is led to drive at unsafe speeds . Police and inspectors ca n't be everywhere . If drivers sat at the front of the car , the road flashing beneath their eyes could make them realize when they are driving dangerously . The law of self-preservation would make each driver his own police officer . The automobile industry is building vehicles ten to fifteen times safer than the accident-prone private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and operators will cite the location of the driver at the front of his vehicle as probably the responsible factor in bus freedom from accidents . The most essential requisite for bringing automobile accidents under control is to construct the automobile , as the bus has been constructed , so that the driver will be at the front of his vehicle , with a full view of the road from front bumper to horizon . ARTHUR W. STEVENS , President , Automobile Safety Association . Boston , July 7 , 1950 . Radios Asked for Veterans To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Recently I made an inspection tour of the new Franklin Delano Roosevelt Veterans Hospital in Montrose , N. Y. It is the last word in hospital design and eventually will house about 1,500 mental patients . At present there are 350 , whose most urgent need are little table or bedside radios . Because of a Veterans Administration ruling which forbids the transfer of properties which were gifts without the written consent of the donors , the patients are without any radios . As a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing this on their behalf , respectfully suggesting to your readers to donate these radios to those unfortunates of World Wars I and II who are still paying dearly for the victory over our enemies . Dr. N. HOWARD HYMAN , Chairman , Sunshine Fund , Metropolitan Post , No. 164 , Jewish War Veterans of the United States . New York , July 8 , 1950.                     