@@698650

Yesterday the acting chairman of the Ways and Means Committee of the House , Mr. CRISP , said to the correspondents that the way in which the revenue bill had thus far been dealt with by the House of Representatives has been " very harmful to the country . " That was the reason which he gave for speeding an early vote on the sales tax . Further exemptions from it conceded over the week-end by those in charge of the bill were obviously intended to conciliate its opponents . At first Mr. LA GUARDIA thought them sufficient , but later changed his mind . Representative RAN KIN of Mississippi fiercely denounced them as no better than " legislative bribery . " But he must be very simple-minded if he does not know that tariff bills and appropriations for farm relief and for river and harbor improvements are always helped to passage by granting particular favors to special pleaders . It was said that the reciprocity treaty between Canada and the United States in 1856 was " floated through on champagne . " Nearly all important measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some kind to members who produce the necessary votes . Whether that process will be successful with the 21,4 per cent tax on manufactures , which is the very core of the revenue bill , is still uncertain . Even after the period for " cooling off , " there are many members of the House disposed to utter heated as well as wild and whirling words . A few of them are taking up the cry that the way to raise enough revenue to balance the budget is to " soak the rich . " That was the theory upon which Representative LA GUARDIA proceeded last week when he urged a great increase in the inheritance tax and the raising of the surtaxes to 65 per cent . Admitting that the obligation rested upon the opponents of the sales tax to show in what other way the money could be raised in order to make the revenue of the Government equal its expenditures , he produced a little list . He contended that it would put the requisite funds into the Treasury . But from the Treasury there came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the expert estimates of the results which they would produce . Secretary MILLS passed the figures on to Mr. LA GUARDIA , pointing out to him , with the utmost good temper , that hisprogram would not do . Itemizing the taxes proposed by Mr. LA GUARDIA , with their probable yield , one after the other , the Secretary showed that on Mr. LA GUARDIA 'S own figures , " you are still short $530,000,000 . " He meant that he was by that sum short of the amount necessary in order to balance the budget . This is what comes of trying too hard to " soak the rich " ? who have , as it happens , in this matter of excessive taxation , reached the point of being quite unsoakable . It may well be that the attitude and arguments of several members of the House are causing public disquiet . But if they are harmful to the country , they are still more harmful to the men who make such an exhibition of themselves , and to the political parties to which they belong . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of affairs is very simple . The Treasury did not propose the sales tax , and . the Ways and Means Committee were for a long time very averse to recommending it . But after patient ex- amin ' ation of all possible sources of revenue , they came to the conclusion that by no other levy could the needed revenue be secured . Repeatedly they have challenged their antagonists to produce an alternative . None has been put forward that would bear the weight of actual tax tables . Each one proposed is , like Mr. LA GUARDIA 's , left " short " by many millions . But , unfortunately , at the same time the House of Representatives is leaving itself , in the eyes of discriminating people , " short " of steadiness and wisdom and determination in facing a crisis in our public finance .                     