@@686950

Arthur J. Balfour , the head of the British delegation , told th " e Assembly of ' the League of Nations today that until the world got into a different frame of mind from that a today , and until all natiehs co-operated In the errort , there could be no disarmament , either under the direction of the League or any other direction . Admitting frankly that the League had been unable up to the present to make any worth-while steps toward lightening , the burden of armies and navies , Mr. Balfour urgaid all men to remember that the world was today not the sort of world in which the founders of the League planted it to work , and that the progress of the League in its efforts toward disarmament was almost hopelessly hampered for the present by the absence of important powers not bound by its pledges and , as Mr. Balfour put it , not paying any attention to what the League was trying to do .. Mr. Balfour 's speech is of importance because he represents Great Britain not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly , and no one has had more to do with League work than the distinguished British statesman . " I regret , as we all regret , " he said , " that the hopes we all entertained two or three years ago of rapid and effectual and ; universal- diminution of the burdens of preparation for war , which hangs like a millstone around the neck of the world , and which hampers an economic revival at every stage , - has not been realized . Some progress has been made , not through the operation of the League . of-Nation 's , but through the operation of various peace treaties , and there has been a notable diminution of Gthe armaments of the Central Powers . But I do not quarrel with , the general conclusion that the progress of the League has been disappointing . Still a World of Ward . " We must rerninber what so many are inclined to forget , that the League of Nations is not now working in a. world ordered in the fashion we all hoped it would be ordered after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult thing to carry out except in a world where disturbances have ceased . Can any of us look around the world as it is today and call it a world-undisturbed by ' wars and rumors of wars ? That happy state may come , but it has.not come yet , and it is difficult for the ? League , - or any one else , to deal effectually with the question of disarmament until it is carrying out this new policy in a world which is genus inely at heart a peaceable world . . " And there is something else to be said . Those who framed the covenant hoped and believed then when ft was accepted it would include " all nations of the world . Those high hopes have not yet been fulfilled . In the first ' place , we lose by the absence from our Council of a very valuable element . We lose something in. the authority we could boast as including ( ) Very civilized nation . That is a great loss , but it is not merely that loss which . measures the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes LLB the reduction of armaments by the . fact that it was not an allinclusivesociety . How can the nations within the League set to work on disarmament until they are sure their example Is : going to be followed or accompanied by a similar policy of the nations without the League ? General disarmament can come only if it is general disarmament . " There is another important factor . One of the most important problems , connected with disarmament - is ? the manufacture of armaments and the distribution of armaments and the sale of armaments by private - firms . How can that be dealt with when great manufacturers are , outside the limits of . the League ? How can : the nations within tile ' , Jeague pass- self-denying-Ordinances BALFOUR DECLARES LEAGUE IS CRIPPLED Mensdorff Pleads for Austria . Today 's session of the Assembly was marked by the first address by a representative of the Central Powers before the League . Count Mensdorff , head Of the Austrian delegation , ' Inade an eloquent appeal for the promised financial aid to his country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failure of the United States to reply to . the allied request that-At postpone for twenty . years its claim for $20,000,000 advanced for food relief . Count Mensdorff said that Austria had accepted all the conditions laid down by the League . but the League had not given the promised help . ' The Austrian people can not achieve their . ettonoraia recountraction unless . they get assistance , " he said . " They have been deprived of the greater part of their natural resources , and they are still suffering from the effects of the war and lack of food . The Austrian Government has kept order under difficult circumstances , and the Austrian people has shown a spirit of courageous resignation . " He said it was to the interest of the whole world . that Vienna should not die , but that without outside help the Austrian situation was hopeless , and the country was in danger of falling to pieces . Sharp Attack Upon Albania . A disagreeable incident took place at today 's session . It was the savage attack by M. Spalaikovitch , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only did he get his reward in the coldness With which his speech was received , but in addition to being reprimanded by President van Karnebeek lie was sharply rebuked by Arthur J. Balfour . Albania had applied to the Council of the League for redress against the alleged invasion of her territory by Serbians and , not satisfied with the attitude of the Council . had had recourse to the Assembly , - as provided for by the rules of the League . The Jugoslav delegate , mistakenly assuming that the Council 's decision meant that it had no jurisdiction over the dispute , warned the Assembly against interfering . He objected to sending the Albanian complaint to all the delegations as being undesirable publicity , and said : " Albania was not a real State last year , any more than it is this year . " He insisted that it was a serious mistake to let a nation like Albania into the League , saying that It had got in by a back door . It-was impossible , he said , for Albania 's frontiers to be Violated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the frontiers given her in 1913 he called " absurd . " It was here that President van Karnebeek told him to use more moderate language . The Jugoslav delegate then concluded by saying that he was only trying to prevent the League from causing another war . Mr. Balfour took the rostrum , and in sharp , pithy terms told M. Spalaikovitch that he had misinformed the Assembly as to the Council 's decision , and that he would gain nothing by attacking the admission of Albania to the League . He advised him to remember that " nothing can be gained by reviving embittered recollections and going back upon the weary dregs of ancient controversies . " Mr. Balfour also took occasion to deny the charge made by Hjalmar Branting of Sweden that the Council was under the control of the great Allied powers . He thought that such attacks as that of Mr. Branting hurt the prestige of the League . Mandate Question Goes to Committee . GENEVA , Sept. 10 ( Associated Press ) . ? The resolution introduced last Thursday before the Assembly of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Africa , asking for an immediate definition of the A and B classes of mandates , was referred today by the Committee on Amendments to a special commission of eight members . The commission is composed of Lord Robert , Paul Hymans of Belgium , the Marquis Imperiali of Italy , Herbert A. L. Fisher of . England , Viscount Ishii of Japan , M. Reynald of France , Dr. Fridtjot Nansen of Norway and Charles J. Doherty of Cnada . The resolution offered by Lord Robert was as follows : " The Assembly , regretting the delay which has taken place in the definition of mandates , recognizes that the Council is not responsible for that delay : and is of the opinion that ' it would be desirable that mandates of the A and B classes should be forthwith defined . " Interest in the election of judges to the International Court continues to be one of the features of the Assembly meeting .. There seems to be little doubt that Elihu Boot will be elected as the American reprvntative on the court , U ho.does slot tun- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacture and distribution of arms when great manufacturing nations outside the League refuse to be hound , refuse even to consider the problems which the others within the League are endeavoring to . deal with ? It is quite evident that the efforts of the League must always be maimed and hampered so long as it can not include within its sphere the great nations which are not now members of the League . " Let these considerations be remembered by all those who in haste or otherwise are inclined to criticise the League for its slow progress . " Crippled by America 's Absence . Mr. Balfour 's speech is an open recognition of what all the members of the League have now come to realize , that neither this League nor any other can accomplish important reforms without all the great nations helping . Everybody feels now that the League is sadly hampered in its most important undertaking by the absence of the United States , Germany and youssia  --  the most important of these being at this time , of course , the United States . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the World Court . In the case of all three the attitude of the American Government makes progress very difficult , indeed . Whether the effect of America 's absence . which . hampers these projects , will be for the ultimate good of America and the world at large remains to be seen . But the difficulties in the way of these large accomplishments by no means bring conviction to the League leaders that the League must stop . On the contrary , they hold that its sphere of action is so enormous'that work can be found to be done even under the limitations which the absence of great nations inflict . The League is going to live on for some time to come . That is the determination of all the great and most of the small powers within it . Its leaders believe that if it continues quietly and accomplishes some smaller things well people will finally come to realize that its formation was not a dastardly plot of the European powers to rob America of her sovereign rights , but a really serious undertaking for ideals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the conviction of the leaders of the work that it is this League or none for many years to come . In concluding his remarkable speech today Mr. Balfour , after telling in what the League had failed , pointed to the long list of things it had done  --  some well , Some not so.well  --  and said : - " Any man who reads this list should ask himself the simple question : ' Were the League of Nations abolished tomorrow , what body either exists or could be found which would do these things ? ' - . "                     