@@709350

By filing formal charges with the Security Council against Soviet activity in Iran , the Iranian Government puts the United Nations to a severe test It is a test , however , that the United States Government is determined should come . President Truman affirmed yesterday , in transmitting Secretary of State James F. Byrnes ' report on the London meeting of UNO to Congress , that the United States pledges its utmost to make that Organization succeed . Had Iran not placed its dispute with Russia on the Council 's agenda , Washington was fully prepared to insist on a pubic airing of the Iranian matter and a Soviet explanation of actions and intentions in Iran . No Veto on Procedure Now that the issue is on the Council 's provisional agenda , there seems no doubt it will quickly be placed on the formal Council agenda once the 11 powers meet in New York City next week . For Russia has no veto over such a procedural decision and enough of the other 10 states are known to approve a showdown over Iran to assure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matter . In bringing the Security Council 's attention to its dispute with Russia , Iran emphasizes that the basis for this new charge arises from developments since Jan. 30 , when the Council asked Moscow and Teheran to negotiate directly and reach an agreement . These new developments it lists as two : Maintenance of Soviet troops in Iranian territory after March 2 , 1946 , contrary to the express provisions of Article V of the tripartite treaty of alliance of January 29 , 1942 . Continued interference by the Soviet Union in the internal affairs of Iran through the medium of Soviet agents , officials , and armed forces . Iran , persuaded that these developments endanger the maintenance of international pevce and security , ' calls for security council action under Article 3 ' , paragraph 1 , of the United Nations Charter Specific Chan-es it specifically charges that tho ! Soviet Union is violating three in ternational commitments : 1 . The 1942 Soviet-British . Iranian treaty which promised that Soviet and British troops would quit Iran six months after the war ended  --  which no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The declaration of Teheran , to which the United States is a party , assures Iran of the Big Three 's " desire for the maintenance of the independence , sovereignty , and territorial integrity of Iran . " 3 . The Charter of the United Nations , in which the member nations promise : " To fulfill in gobd faith the obligations assumed by them " ; to " refrain from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state " ; and to " settle their international disputes by peaceful means in such a manner that international peace and security , and justice , are not eniangered . " Crucial Test for UNO The American Government views the Iranian dispute as a crucial test of UNO 's effectiveness . Only three things , it is believed here , could happen before next Monday to keep this showdown from being aired in public . A swift Soviet coup d'etat or Moscow-engineered " Palace Revolution " in Teheran could present the Council with a puppet government that would welcome Red Army troops in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moscow could fail to show up at the Council meeting , pleading time to get its delegation in New York , particularly if it should decide to send either of its ace diplomats  --  Vyacheslav M. Molotov or Andrei Vishinsky . While one hears rumors that the Russians might ditch the new league at this point , no credence is placed in them . The Red Army troops in Iran could make a hasty arid public withdrawal that would be so convincing as to persuade Teheran to cancel its plea for Council action . This Iranian dispute has , since London . expanded into much more than a Soviet-Iranian affair . Moscow radiocasts have suggested that Iranian oil concessions were at the bottom of the trouble . But in Washington the continued presence of Soviet troops in Iran is believed to involve more than oil . While petroleum deposits may be important , American officials stress that the sanctity of treaties also is at stake , that a struggle for power in the Middle East is linvolved that requires some clear explanation by Moscow of its intentions , that UNO 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's failure to reply to either of the two notes Secretary Byrnes dispatched shortly after March 2 when Soviet troops were to have been out of Iran has necessarily increased American suspicion of the Kremlin 's intentions . Its denial through its controlled press of the truth of American reports of Soviet troop movements in Iran without replacing them with its own factual report has darkened rather than cleared the air . Also there are reports here . which officials refuse to comment rn , that among the tons of Nazi documents unearth in Germany are a number giving detailed accounts of the Kremlin 's negotiations with Hitler that expose Russia 's aggressive designs on its Near East neighbors . If such documents disclosing the Kremlin 's territorial ambitions exist they might well cause American officials to worry , until the Kremlin clearly delimits its political and territorial designs . 