@@715050

India is seeking to persuade the Soviet Union . Communist China , and the United States that there is nothing in its Korean peace plan to which either side need take objection . It appears clear horn corridor comments at United Nations headquarters that this is a formidable task . As tar as the United States is concerned , it may he an impossible task until President-elect Eisenhower returns from Korea . Ills trip there is understood to be imminent . Prior to leaving , the President-elect had a series of conferences in New York . Atter he conferred with Senator Alexander Wiley fl ) of Wisconsin , a member of the United States delegation to the UN , Senator Wiley said the general had " reemphasized his agreement with the principle of nonforcible repatriation of Communist prisoners . " Vishinsky Mum On the Communist side , Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Y. Vishinsky is keeping his own counsel . Poland , which always reflects Soviet policy after it is made but is not always a reliable bellwether before the event , told a UN committee Nov. 19 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to attack Manchuria , and would use prisoners for sabotage and terrorism in their homelands . The speech was a repetition of Mr. Vishinsky 's earlier intransigeance , with what appeared to be strenuous efforts to frighten and inflame Communist China . The Polish diplomat forecast a new UN offensive , saying Gen. Mark Clark would press General Eisenhower for three or four new divisions when the President-elect arrived in Korea . India , meanwhile , is doing its utmost to become a successful peacemaker . V. K. Krishna Menon , principal architect of the armistice plan , explained and analyzed it in considerable detail Nov. 19 before the 60-nation Political Committee of the General Assembly . He quoted the Chinese Com- munist regime as having said many of the " hard core " prisoners  --  the central figures in the dispute  --  are " spies , informers , and counterrevolutionaries . " " They may not be wanted back in China , " Mr. Menon suggested . If this proved to be the case , a convenient face-saving device clearly would have been found by which some of the 20.000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet American objections that the " hard core " would , under the terms of the Indian proposal , be faced with a choice between going home and accepting indefinite imprisonment . Any prolonged confinement would not be " humanitarian " treatment , he said , pointing out that the plan calls for such treatment . " One ca n't keep human beings in captivity all their lives , or indefinitely , " he said , suggesting that if a high-level postwar political conference were not able to dispose of them , they would become charges of the United Nations . This was a new proposal . There is no provision to this effect in the Indian plan as drafted for the committee 's consideration . The Indian diplomat , a close associate of Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru , recalled that in 1929. following a war between Bolivia and Paraguay , a repatri ation commission not dissimilar to the one he now is suggesting , including the then Capt . Matthew B. Ridgway , oversaw the repatriation of prisoners . At least one prisoner who did not want to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was nothing the commission could do about it . He left it for his hearers to draw any modern parallels they chose . Appeals to Communists Citing Communist positions on the prisoner issue , Mr. Menon also sought to persuade Moscow , Peking , and Pyongyang that their demands were being met . Addressing himself directly to the Polish delegate who had just preceded him , Mr. Menon said there would be no forcible detention . In another context , he said there would be no screening  --  a process to which Mr. Vishinsky has objected . He reminded the Communists they would have a chance to " inform " prisoners an amnesty awaited them at home . to " clarify " any " distorted views " they may have acquired . Western diplomats said following the meeting that they would have to study the full transcript of Mr. Menon 's remarks and compare his ideas with those set forth more formally in the Indian resolution before reaching definite conclusions . Mr. Vishinsky 's reactions are awaited with interest , Associated Press V. K. Krishna Menon     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       