@@780950

So far as the size of the throng and its enthusiasm went , to-day 's demonstration in honor of the Earl of Aberdeen , the retiring Lord Lieutenant of Ireland , far exceeded the public expectations . The procession , being a hastily patched up affair , was more or less a reminder of the familiar St. Patrick 's Day paza.des ; but there was no mistaking the marvelous lire with which the populace rose at the sight of the slender Lord Aberdeen , or , rather , at the sight of his pretty Countess , who was clad in a pale-blue dress , and who was literally covered with flowers by the great crowd assembled on Cork Hill and forced to stand in her carriage to acknowledge the honors showered upon her . The whole affair was impressive beyond conception as a manifestation of the deep popular feeling . Fully one-third of the flags carried in the procession were American , and , of course , there was not a single English banner . The relations between the troops and the crowd were excellent . Both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proves to be only temporary . It must , indeed , have been a , new sensation for the British soldiers , for the first time in their generation , to make a road for the Irish instead of one through them . Lord Aberdeen and the Countess were much affected by the demonstration . Lord Mayor Sullivan asked Lord Aberdeen to describe the scene to the Queen , and to tell her that " this was a pale forecast of the reception she will receive when she comes in person to restore to Ireland her ancient right of self-government . " The address of the corporation to the retiring Viceroy de:hired that nothing short of Mr. Grhulstone 's measure would satisfy the Irish people . In his speech at Kingstown Lord Aberdeen promised that he and the Countess would fervently pray for the peace and prosperity of Ireland . The farewell levee in the afternoon was less brilliant than that of Earl Spencer and the attendance was smaller . I learn to-night privately that Mr. Parnell has informed Mr. Egan of his wish that the Chicago Convention of the Irish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossibility of sparing members of the Irish Parliamentary delegation before then . Mr. Egan cabled back last night , urging Mr. Parnell to reconsider his decision , and insisting that the convention ought to be held in August . But it is understood here that Mr. Parnell will hold to his October decision , despite Mr. Egan 's assertion that postponement means disaster .                     