@@727450

College admissions officers across the country have promised " the widest possible latitude " to high school seniors here to assure that they will not he penalized as a result of the teachers ' strikes that have kept students out of school for all but 12 days since Sept. 9 . The Board of Education 's director of college guidance said yesterday that the college officials were prepared to help the students " with respect to deadlines , application forms and other requirements " to meet . the emergency . Many colleges are even prepared to offer the city 's public high school seniors some of the advisory services they would normally get from their own guidance counselors , Harold Zuckerman , the Board or Education 's expert on college admissions , called on public high school seniors and their parents to avoid hysteria and misinformation and to take full advantage of a variety of options to protect their chances of college admission . The assurance was offered as Dr. James E. Allen Jr. , the State Education Commissioner , conducted secret negotiations here yesterday in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers ' strike . He was trying to win support for some variation of a plan he suggested last Tuesday , but which was rejected by the United Federation of Teachers . This was the proposal that Hie state 1111110 a trustee for the controversial Groan HillContinued Brownsville school district of Brooklyn to assure union teachers they would not be harassed if they returned to classroom duties . In an interview on college admissions , Dr. Zuckerman urged all concerned to make maximum use of the extraordinary considerations promised by the colleges . But he also warned students that , rather than succumbing to panic , they must show initiative in seeking out college opportunities . For example , candidates for graduation in January , who expect to enter any unit of the City University of New York , both senior or community colleges , are directed to call 594-7710 to make appointments with the university 's counselors who are assisting students in completing applications for admission next February . Transcripts of high school grades for these students are available in the data processing bank , set up by the University @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the case of other colleges and universities , applicants for both spring and fall admission are directed to write immediately to the colleges of their choice , requesting the necessary forms and , if required , financial aid application blanks for a Parent 's Confidential Form . Honesty Is Stressed Dr. Zuckerman said applicants should complete the application forms and prepare an informal transcript of their first three years of high school grades by referring to old report cards or from memory . Students who have taken such national examinations as the Preliminary Scholastic Aptitude Test or any other tests administered by the College Entrance Examination Board , should add their scores to the home-made transcripts so that the college may make the best possible estimate of their general academic achievement . As soon as schools reopen , official transcripts will be available and should then be forwarded to the colleges . " Preparing an individual transcript as recommended here tests the integrity of the student , and great care and honesty should therefore go into the effort , " Dr. Zuckerman said . He added that his office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make every effort to start processing the students ' applications and would establish mail and telephone communications with them . Most of these college officials have also assured the Board of Education that they would add special guidance and advisory services for the city 's youngsters to make up for any lack of their own high school services . This means that they are prepared to answer questions about college and career choices and advise students where else to apply in instances of apparently inappropriate selections . The next date for the College Board 's aptitude tests will be Dec. 7 , and the final date for filing was yesterday . But Dr. Zuckerman said he had written assurance from the College Board and the Educational Testing Service , which administers the tests , that the penalty for late filing will be waived for the Dec. 7 series for applicants from the city 's public high schools only . Applicants for these tests may obtain information booklets and application forms from the examination board 's local office at 475 Riverside Drive . The Regents Scholarship Examinations have been postponed , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the reopening of the schools . The test date for the New York City public high schools for the preliminary scholastic aptitude tests , usually taken in the junior year , originally scheduled for Nov. 16 , has also been postponed . While Dr. Zuckerman stressed that parents and students should avoid panic by remembering that college admission is determined on the basis of three years of academic work and continuing performance and progress , he also warned that students are expected to " continue to perform in a sound academic way during their senior year . " " Colleges can always withdraw an offer of admission if the student In his senior year collapses academically , " he said . But he emphasized that , the closing of the schools does not prevent students from continuing their studies on their own and implied that colleges would be impressed by such effort . He urged students to make wide use of the public libraries in the fields of English and social studies . " They are still open , your reading lists can be found at at the end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He urged them to appeal to librarians for help , when necessary . Courses Available In mathematics and science , he added , tutorial programs are available at the local colleges , community centers , religious buildings and other places , and they are being staffed by vol : unteer teachers . Such courses are free , and the teachers , with approval by the United Federation of Teachers , are serving without pay . Students are urged to inquire in their neighborhoods to find such centers . The Cooper Union is offering special tutorial classes for seniors on Monday afternoons in mathematics , physics and chemistry . For information , students may call ALgonquin - 4- 6300 . Similar courses are available at Pratt Institute . and : ' Pace College . ? frsThe Council . of Supervisory Assockitioni  --  the organization of principals and other administrators  --  is planning ; to lish a college ; information sew : - ice using telephones itatfed'ibi the **26;2047;TOOLONG experts , whcre.hav agreed : ; e volunteer their : . - serviceb , - , if shutdown . Centinnes. hers ere 852=3009 : and 852-3014 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iiged strongly not to goof off . This is a wonderful opportunity for independent study and rgadlne Many college - admissions officers feel that taldng advantage of this period can add an impressive factor in the student 's favor . "                     