@@709050

Governor Dewey and Mayor La Guardia engaged last night in what amounted to a radio debate on the candidates for municipal office in the current campaign best able to carry on the kind of clean , honest government that both agreed the city has enjoyed in the last twelve years . The Governor contended that the ' only method by which the voters could assure themselves of good government for the next four years was through the election of Judge Jonah J. Goldstein and his associates on the Republican-LiberalFusion ticket . William O'Dwyer , the Democratic-American Labor candidate for Mayor , he described as an associate of underworld characters and a smiling face for a corrupt political machine , while Newbold Morris , the No Deal entry , was labeled an afterthought candidate entered for the purpose of dividing and confusing the good government vote . Mayor Assails Goldstein The Mayor , applauding Mr. Dewey 's attacks on Democratic machines , argued that Mr. Morris offered the voters the only hope of continuing the kind of government he has been giving them . Judge Goldstein , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variously as the " refuse of Tammany Hall " and " one of Jimmy Hines ' boys . " Inferentially , the Governor accused the Mayor of injecting Mr. Morris and the No Deal ticket into the field for spite . and declared that those who drop the torch of good government for that reason or for selfishness or cowardice " have lost their soul . " Mr. La Guardia 's counter to this was a broad implication that Mr. Dewey had been using his office to build up a political or personal machine and the observation that those who do this " have lost their soul . " Governor Dewey 's speech , delivered over WOR from 10 to 10:30 ' P. M. , and the Mayor 's reply over the same station from 10:30 to 11 P. M .. came as the climax to the final week of the city campaign . The Dewey address had particula.r1 interest since his administration at Albany has been one of Mr. O'Dwyer 's chief campaign issues and because both Mr. O'Dwyer and Mayor La . Guardia have been accusing him of handpicking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own political fortunes . Differ on Goldstein Nomination Mr. Dewey and the Mayor offered conflicting versions last night of how Judge Goldstein came to be the candidate . The Governor said that the Republicans , desirous of presenting a good government ticket in coalition with the Liberal and Fusion parties to carry on its traditional role of spearheading the fight for decent government for New York City , accepted Judge Goldstein when he was proposed by the Liberal party . He felt personally , he added . " that the choice of Judge Goldstein was ' a mighty fine one . " Mayor La . Guardia 's version is that Judge Goldstein actively sought the Democratic nomination and was rejected . Thereafter he had Supreme Court Justice Denis O'Leary Cohalan , a Democrat , speak to Justice David W. Peck , a Republican . Justice Peck , according to the Mayor 's version , telephoned Governor Dewey on the possibility of getting the Republican nomination and was told , " That 's fine  --  a masterstroke  --  it will help me next year . " Governor Dewey spent a good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the city government , citing the proof established in the trial of James J. Hines , formerly Tammany leader of the old Eleventh Assembly District , to show the alliance between the Democratic machine and the underworld . He skimmed , too , through recent // charges made against Mr. O'Dwyer as a friend of notorious characters , including Frank Costello , Joe Adonis and Irving Sherman , and the allegations of a Brooklyn grand jury that his administration had been lax , inefficient and had failed to prosecute waterfront racketeers despite ample evidence against them . Governor Dewey said it was " incredible " to him and a shock that Mr. O'Nwyer had been unable to deny these charges . Judge Goldstein was described by the Governor as a man of demI onstrated courage and independence , able , honest and sincere , free and unbossed . Attacks Goldstein Appointments Mayor La Guardia 's appraisal was different . He charged that Judge Goldstein 's only display of independence was made in obtaining his nomination for his present office with the help of the worst elements in Tammany . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first appointee one , of Jimmy Hines ' election district captains and when that appointee was promoted , choosing another , that at a time when Hines was at the height of his power before Mr. Dewey as District Attorney had sent him to jail : Governor Dewey , in asserting that the Goldstein ticket was the only good government ticket in the field , cited the failure of the others to name Controller Joseph D. for re-election . Mr. , who has been part of the La Guardia Administration for the last eight years , was described as one of the ablest men to hold that office . He is a. running mate of Judge Goldstein along with Municipal Court Justice Nicholas M. Pette of Queens for President of the Council . Also cited by the Governor was the failure of the others to renominate Borough President Edgai ; J. Nathan Jr . of Manhattan . Mayor La . Guardia in his answer made . no mention of Mr. and the failure to give him a place on the No Deal ticket . He conceded that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor 's charge that the Morris running mates were politically unknown . Governor Dewey 's address was characterized by the Mayor as the " snap of a wad of bubble gum " when voters expected an atomic bomb . Mayor La Guardia 's answer was described by Thomas J. Curran , New York County Republican leader , in a statement issued upon its completion , as " the blatant mouthings of a vituperative demagogue . " Mr. Dewey 's speech was finished ahead of schedule . The remaining time was filled with a recording of Handel 's " Largo . " Mayor La Guardia said it was singularly appropriate since it is music usually played at funerals . At the broadcast station it was said that Governor Dewey had requested the number .                     