@@727550

Los Angeles , Jan. 9 ? Helmeted police , marching 70 abreast , swept thru the campus of San Fernando Valley State college here today and arrested 293 students who defied a state of emergency decreed by the acting college president . The policemen made several sweeps before they completed their roundup virtually without violence . This was in contrast to yesterday when six persons were injured and 14 arrested when about 1,000 demonstrators clashed with clubswinging police . Taken to Van Nays Jail Those arrested were taken to nearby Van Nuys jail and charged with unlawful assembly . The state of emergency declared by Delmar T. Oviatt , acting president , banned gatherings and permitted only faculty , students , and staff members on the campus . Action began today when about 250 students gathered in the free speech area of the campus . Several police divisions were on standby . duty at the time . Arrests began after a police lieutenant declared the assembly unlawful and the group failed to disperse . Oviatt Visits Area Oviatt visited the free speech area w h iie policemen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet with " i delegation of three members of the Students for a Jim ? . cratic Society , three from the Black Student union , and three members of the community . " Oviatt was booed and jeered during his appearance . The campus has had sporadic student demonstrations since Nov. 4 when a group led by members of the Black Student union seized two buildings and held a number of persons at knife- point . They demanded changes in administration , staff , and curriculum . Junior Colleges Hit Trouble also flared today at three junior colleges in the Los Angeles area . At newly opened Southwest college , 18 persons were arrested after a day-long series of events . They were charged with suspicion of interfering with school business . Pickets were reported to have blocked a driveway for a time , and a small fire was set in a trash can . At East Los Angeles college , students reportedly took over two buildings for a time . One was the student center . Ninetyfive sheriff 's deputies restored order . One classroom was reported slightly damaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an effigy of a speech teacher but the affair broke up without police being called . Clash at San . Francisco San Francisco , Jan. 9 ? A new clash erupted this afternoon between pickets and police at San Francisco State college . Five student pickets were arrested . Police pushed a milling crowd of 500 into the street across from the college entrance . Cans and some rocks were thrown at police before they restored order . The disorder was touched off by the arrest of pickets for interfering with students bound for classes . The striking American Fed . eration of Teachers defied a court order and resumed picketing , but they kept clear of student strikers . Gary Hawkins , president of the local union , said members voted over ? whelmingly to ignore a temporary restraining order against picketing and striking issued late yesterday by Judge Edward O'Day of Superior court . A stink bomb was set off in the college library . A quartermile from the campus the home of Edward Duerr , a faculty member , was damaged slightly by two chemical firebombs . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union and the Third World Liberation front began a violent strike Nov. 6 . College troubles were compounded when the teachers union struck last Monday . Students are demand . ing greater opportunity for Negroes and other minority groups . Teachers are making economic demands . Reject Amnesty Offer Waltham , Mass. , Jan. 9 ? Students at Brandeis university today rejected an offer of amnesty offered to a group of Negro demonstrators who took over Ford hail , which houses the school 's communications system . It was offered by Morris B. Abrams , university president . The students , who contend the 2,600. student university about 12 miles west of Boston is racist , took over the building yesterday and showed no signs of leaving . There are about 110 Negro students at the college . Queens Remains Closed New York , Jan. ** of disagreement deepened today at Queens college which remained closed for the second day . Dissident students in the college 's program designed to aid underprivileged students said they were prepared for a longs struggle . The protesters de-1 manded the ouster of Joseph Mulholland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his successor . Demonstrators declined to meet with Joseph P. , president of Queens , a branch of the City University of New York . Clash at Swarthmore Swarthmore , Pa. , Jan. 9 , ( AI - Fifteen Afro-American student society members at Swarthmore college took over the old school 's administration building today , saying they would remain inside until their demands are met by officials . Reportedly there were no disturbances and classes continued .                     