@@722350

The Legislature is ready to approve this week a bill giving New York City the power to seize and repair slum properties . This anti-slum measure , known as the receivership bill , has been sought by the Wagner administration for five years . In that time it had been the focal point of political battles in city elections as well as in the Republican-controlled Legislature . The measure before the Legislature is a Republican-sponsored compromise version of the city 's bill . It was worked out in consultation with city housing officials by Senator Mitchell , Republican of Manhattan , its sponsor in the upper house . - Mayor Wagner described the compromise version last night as " not wholly satisfactory , but one that we can live with . " He said it would give the city a sorely needed weapon for clearing up serious violations in slum buildings when the owner refuses to do so . Mr. Mitchell said the Repub // licans had balked at accepting the city bill because some aspects of it were regarded as unconstitutional , not only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City of New York . A similar law , he noted , was declared unconstitutional by the courts in 1937 . The Mitchell compromise bill is based on recommendations of the Bar Association . The measure , endorsed by Governor Rockefeller and Republican legislative leaders , would take effect as soon as the Governor signed it . Its passage is expected to remove a political weapon from the hands of New York City Democrats , who have argued that the Republican state government was not giving the city the power it needed to fight slums . The Mitchell bill makes the City Commisioner of Real Estate the receiver of badly neglected slum properties in cases where the landlords balk at correcting violations that pose a serious threat to the life , health or safety of tenants . Under the procedure , the city would send a special notice to the landlord that his property contained serious violations that must be cleared up within twenty-one days . If the landlord refused to correct them , or could not be found , the city would be empowered to go into State Supreme Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holder of the mortgage on the property or other creditors , to show why the property should not be turned over to the city temporarily . If the court ruled that the landlord was not acting in good faith , it could direct that the city be made a receiver of the property . The city could then make repairs on the building . Rent to Defray Costs Money spent by the city for making the building habitable again would be repaid out of rent collected from the tenants . The city would have first claim on rents . In cases where the violations . such as a sagging roof or stairway , posed an imminent danger to tenants the court would be empowered to appoint the city an emergency receiver immediately for a thirty-day period . Regardless of whether the receivership was for a short-term or long-term basis , however , the property would be returned to the landlord after the city had corrected all violations and had been reimbursed for its costs out of the rent money . The Mitchell bill would empower the court to give the landlord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building before permitting the city to seize it . The landlord or mortgagee holder would be answerable to the court at all times and the city could re-enter its request for receivership if it felt the work was not being done properly or quickly enough . Mrs. Hortense Gabel , Mayor , Wagner 's assistant for housing , said today that the city had sought vainly for a clause giving the city the right to place a prior lien , or first claim , on the property as well as on the rent . Mrs. Gabel said the city intended to use the powers under the measure " only sparingly and only in cases of serious violations . " She said it was not aimed at " cooperative landlords but at the scofflaw. the exploiter. and the slumlord . " But Senator Mitchell and the bar association felt that this would be unconstitutional . since the city could eventually sell the property if it wished .                     