@@682550

Fifteen thousand heavily armed Carranza soldiers have just reached a point opposite Naco , Ariz .. an troop trains from the interior . This information reached General Funston from army sources along the Arizona border today . It served , with numerous other reports received in the last few days . to convince the officials here that from a military viewpoint the Mexican situation was becoming hourly more tense , and plans are being made to rush National Guard organizations directly to border positions , instead of to concentration camps , without even waiting for the organizations to be recruited up to maximum war strength . At Naco the Americans are digging trenches today . The Missouri National Guard will start for the border this evening , according to reports that have been sent to General Funston . " They will be located somewhere in Texas  --  that 's all it 's advisable to say about their disposition just at present . " was the only comment General Funstun would make on their present destination . He explained that the longer the Hexicans could be kept in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies of the National Guard were to be gathered , the better it would be for the Americans in the event of a break . Western Troops to Start . Besides the New York , New Jersey , and Massachusetts troops starting for the border tonight or tomorrow , there will be three brigades of infantry . ' or nine regiments , from Illinois and Wisconsin , two brigades from the former State and one from the latter . Present plans are for these to come here . But alternative plans , to meet any - emergency have been made to change their course en route to vital points along the , border , for the army officers are man ; ping out their plans with an eye to the Probability of a sudden break with the Mexican Government . Thus far the man for the New York troops ' entraining tonight to go direct to Brownsville , the apea. of the great ' triangle ofli Texas land that Juts into Mwcico , have not been changed . and it is ' reported that the New Jersey and MaSsachusetts Guards will go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , General Funston places in the New York , New Jersey . and Massachusetts organizations . Across the Rio Grande , opposite El Paso , lies Juarez . Across from Brownsville , Matamoras . These , It is expected , will be two of the first Points taken by the American troops if the break comes . Rescue of Captain Morey . General Pershing reported the rescue of Captain Lewis S. Morey to General Funston this morning , stating that after ordering the three troopers with him to abandon him on the desert the night ' after the fight at Carrizal . Morey dragged himself to a ranch house occupied by an American named McCabe . He was shut through the shoulder and weakened from loss of blood . His wound was cared for and he Was found by Major Jenkins and the two squadrons sent out to search for survivors . Of the eighty .. - four men in the two American troops that encountered the hostile Mexican force , Captain Morey and forty-three enlisted men are now back with the Pershing column . Advices from Chihuahua City state that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their uniforms have been stripped from them . From a negro sergeant of the Tenth Cavalry , who had been near Captain Boyd when he was killed in the fight , the searchers procured the Captain 's notebook containing a record of the troop movements up . to the time of the fight , a carbon copy of the note Captain Boyd sent to the jefe politico of Carrizal , stating that the troops were on their way to Villa Ahumada and that their mission was " peaceful . " a carbon COPY of a note Boyd evidently had sent to Pershing telling of the troop movements , and the original note sent by General Francisco Gomez , the Carranza commander , who led the attack on the Americans . In this note the Americans were invited into Carrizal for a parley .                     