@@726450

PANAMA CITY , July ** proposed new treaty between the United States and Panama on the Panama canal would change the law governing tolls on commercial shipping from a self-sustaining to a profit-making basis to satisfy demands by Panama 's politicians for greatly increased revenues from the canal . Next to the effect of the canal treaty and a coma panion defense treaty on the security of the canal , the toll agreement is the most controversial of all changes proposed in the operation and defense of the canaL A separate new defense treaty would authorize the United States to continue use of certain defense areas , but any military I measures in the Republic of Panama outside of the specified areas , which the United States might consider necessary for the protection of the canal in case of aggression , armed conflict , or other emergency , could be taken only with the consent of Panama . A major part ' of the text of the new defense treaty was published by THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE On July 7 . The United States and Panama have negotiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robles are expected to sign in Washington next month . Authorizes Sett Level Canal in Panama Besides the treaties on the canal itself and its defenses , there is one authorizing the United States to build a sea level canal in Panama , if it should choose a route in that country instead of alternative possibilities in northern Colombia and on the border of Nicaragua and Costa Rica , to replace the present I high-level lake-lock canal . Many American military and civilian authorities in both Panama and Washington regard the new defense treaty as ' hopelessly inadequate for the protection of the canal . They fear that in this age of nuclear weapons and blitzkrieg conventional warfare , such as Israel 's spectacular defeat of the Arab countries in three days , the canal might be overrun or destroyed before the United States could obtain permission from a communist-infiltrated government of Panama to protect it . Opponents of the ' proposed new ? treaties also contend that explicit recognition of Panama 's sovereigntY in the Canal Zone would be a standing invitation for nationalization of the canal by a leftist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communist-dominated student organizations in . Panama have been demanding nationalization of the canal ever since President Gamal Abdel Nasser of the - United Arab Republic nationalized the Suez canal .. Possible ? U. S. Problems Outlined If the canal should be nationalized , the national assembly of Panama could adopt new laws for its Operation contrary to obligations under the proposed new treaty or calling for the withdrawal of - American defense forces . Then the ' United States could:defend the canal only at therisk of being accused thruout I Latin America of " intervention " - in the internal affairs of a Small country . The new treaties must have the " advice and consent " of the United States Senate , which requires a two-thirds vote , before they can bet put into force .. Also they must be approved by the national assembly of Panania . There is widespread opposition to the treaties in Panama , not so much because of their terms but because of a belief that the United States government , by agreeing to them at this time , is seeking tokeep Panama 's ruling . oligarchy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics of that country . The canal treaty would increase payments to Panama , now $1,930,000. annually , to 17 cents a long ton the year and 22 cents after five years on all'commercial cargo . passing thru the canal . The canal is setting new cargo records each year and the annual total is now nearing 100 million long tons . At 22 cents a ton , this would give Panama 22 million dollars a year , which is far more than the present net revenues of the canal operation . Transit revenues were 72.6 millien dollars in the 1966 fiscal year and about 82 million in fiscal 1967 . Net revenues , however , averaged only 3.9 million dollars for the five-year period , 1962-1966 . The new canal treaty authorizes toll increases to give the United States and Panama a " fair return in the light of theit contributions " to the waterway . Under present law , the United States is permitted to charge tolls only for the purpose of sup . porting the canal operation , including the cost of the canal zone government , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total investment is 1.9 billion dollars , of which 330.7 million is interest-bearing . Altho interest payments have been made regularly , the last capital reimbursement was 10 million dollars in 1960 . The present toll rates , which have not been increased since the canal was opened in 1914 , are 90 cents a long ton of cargo capacity for laden ships and 72 cents for ships in ballast . Even at 90 cents a ton , however , a 40,000-ton ship can just about break even by going around Cape Horn and avoiding the canal , according to a recent study made for the canal administration by the Stanford Research institute . Study Indicates Tolls Can Be Raised Brig . Gen. Walter P. Leber , governor of the canal zone and president of the canal company , testified before a House of Representatives ' Panama canal subcommittee on May 18 that studies made by the Stanford institute and by Arthur Anderson &; Co. indicate the possibility of increasing tolls up to 25 per cent with little effect on the volume of traffic . He warned , however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent . Panamanian politicians have demanded toll increases of 50 and even 100 per cent , with a 50 per cent share of gross , not net , revenues for Panama . Studies made for the canal administration show that shippers would avoid excessive tolls by using alternative routes . Such a disruption of world shipping might have a serious effect upon costs to American consumers and upon exports and imports , as well as the balance of payments , of the United States . Of 85.3 million long tons of cargo traffic thru the canal in fiscal year 1966 , 36.6 million originated in the United States and 26.9 million was destined to the United States . Believe Super-Tankers Would n't Use It Eighty per cent of all cargo passing thru the canal is carried by ships of 20,000 tons or less . A ship of about 55,000 tons is the largest that can be locked thru the canal . Experts agree that even a sea level canal would not attract the new supertankers , now approaching 200,000 tons . It is cheaper for these highly automated ships to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to American ports by other alternative routes . E. R. Duckstad , of the Stanford institute , testified that " an increase in tolls at the Panama canal generally can be expected to hasten the development of two separate supply basins for raw materials , one within the Atlantic and one within the Pacific area . And the amount of shipping between them will become a function of the level of tolls charged by the Panama canal . " Madden clam in Panama which controls- ? outflow of water f rom-Madden lake into Chagr es river . This water is vital in canal oneration ; since it is used to fill locks in the canal , more than 80 feet above sea level . United States controls all waterarea shed area surrounding the canal . UPI Telephoto                     