@@706050

WASHINGTON , Nov. 22 ? The week-long " captive " mine strike , called by John L. Lewis despite Presidential admonitions that coal production essential for defense must continue , produced such strong reactions in Congress this week that most any type of antistrike legislation would have passed either house of Congress if the Administration leadership had permitted it to be brought to a vote . The anti-strike reactions were not confined to such persistent labor critics as Representative Howard W. Smith , Democrat , of Virginia , Representative Eugene Cox , Democrat , of Georgia , or Representative Clare Hoffman , Repubitcan. a Michigan . They included such stanch labor supporters as Representative Mary T. Norton , Democrat , of New Jersey , and Representative Robert Ramspeck of Georgia , whose influence in the House Labor Committee against anti-labor legislation often has been the subject of considerable criticism by Representatives Smith , Cox and Hoffman . Agreement Between Blocs The ' Administration leadership , headed by Speaker Sam Rayburn , was , however , avoiding any showdown this week , although late Friday they made an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to permit a House vote on anti-strike legislation when the price control measure is disposed of . It had seemed certain earlier in the week that the President himself would ask for a modified type of labor legislation , dealing spebifically with the captive mine stoppage . Whether the agreement to arbitrate the dispute between John L. Lewis , president of the United Mine Workers of America , and the steel companies will cause him to change his mind remained to be seen . Plans of President It had been considered certain that if the President had failed to obtain a voluntary settlement of the mine dispute over the week-end he would have asked Congress early next week for simple legislation authorizing him to take over such mines as are essential to national defense and declaring it to be unlawful for any person to interrupt such operations by the government by strike , lockout , or otherwise . The Administration theory waS that this method would have been tried first without the use of troops , although the second section of the measure would have authorized injunctive proceedings against any union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rank and file from returning to work at the personal request of the President of the United States . The Army then would have been used as a last resort if gentler methods had failed . There were a variety of rather general anti-strike measures pending in the House and Senate at the end of the week , but the bills considered most likely to win Administration support were those which called for reconstitution Li one form or another of the National Defense Mediation Board and gave this agency statutory power to impose a waiting period of 30 days in advance of strikes in defense Indust : ' es . The Mediation Board , created by executive order of the President on March 13 , has been virtually inoperativa for the last two weeks as all C. I. 0 . members of the tri-partisan agencies quit in protest against the board 's 9-to-2 decision denying a union shop contract to the ' United Mine Workers in the captive mines . Some Adrninistre'on advisers were discussing favorably legislative sanctions which would forbid the granting of a union shop to any union which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or provide for regular and frequent elections of officers by a government-supervised referendum . Connally Measure In the Senate , hearings were started at the week-end on a measure by Senator Tom Connally , Democrat of Texas , which would extend to coal mines the present power of the President to commandeer factories making defense articles . This measure , which was endorsed by the War and Navy Departments , also included a clause " freezing " labor conditions in advance of a strike or lockout in the seized plant , except for wages which might be adjusted by a three-member " defense wage board . " Senator H. Styles Bridges , Republican of New Hampshire , had another bill to regulate unions and forbid strikes without the approval of a majority of the workers in any plant . But the demand for passage of the labor legislation is not likely to recede as a result of the outcome of the captive mine strike . It seemed certain that some type of labor legislation might be passed at once , but the leadership gave no indication that it was ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rail labor-management negotiations which deadlocked on wage issues Friday night only a few hours after President Roosevelt arranged their renewal seemed likely also to play a part in the final Congressional decision . The Railway Labor Act always has been a favorite example cited by those who would control , without oppressing , labor . But in the most recent rail labor dispute , which has resulted in the calling of a strike set for Dec. 7 , the full machinery of the law has been complied with , including the report of a Presidential fact-finding committee which recommended a wage increase of 7Y2 per cent for operating brotherhoods , and 9 cents per hour for the nonoperating workers . The operating brotherhoods , having asked a 30 per cent advance , were reported ready to settle for a 10 per cent increase , while the nonoperating employes were said to be ready to accept a raise of 12 cents per hour although they had asked an increase of 30 cents per hour . Although rail management leaders said Friday night that they would consider no compromise offer in excess of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington was that the strike would be headed off .                     