@@720050

Delegates to the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America convention are to vote today on a resolution that would give their executive board " full power and authority to withdraw " the powerful union from the A.F.L.-C.I.O . However , there was no indication , if the resolution is approved , when or whether the union 's executive board would take such action . Maurice Hutcheson , union president , dodged all questions concering the resolution : Passage of such a resolution would come at a time when Mr. Hutcheson awaits questioning by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. on his activities in Indiana and Washington , D.C. The Carpenters ' general president , reelected Wednesday , is under indictment in Indiana on charges of conspiring to bribe a state rightof-way official in connection with construction of Indiana highways and also has been cited for alleged contempt of the Senate by the McClellan Special Investigating Committee . Speculation was that Mr. Hutcheson and the union 's governing body wanted the resolution to aid Mr. Hutcheson 's bargaining position when he comes up for questioning by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. executive council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Mr. Hutcheson would be invited to appear before the A.F.L.-C.I.O. council at its meetint in San Juan , Puerto Rico , in February , or at a time suitable to the Carpenters ' president . The resolution giving the union 's top body power to swing the 839,494-member union out the the A.F.L.-C.I.O. will be presented on the fifth day of the union 's general convention , held every fourth year . The resolution was presented to the resolutions committee this week , supported by signatures of 1,200 out of 2,000 delegates attending the gathering here . Robert M. Johnson of New York . chairman of the resolutions committee , and other members of this committee already have signed petitions backing the pull-out resolution . There was no official comment regarding the resolution and why it had been injected into the convection proceedings . Mr. Hutcheson said he did n't know why the resolution was brought up , nor would he say whether he supported it . " I 'm chairman of this convention and I ca n't support any particular resolution , " the union 's general president declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declined to say when or whether the union executive committee would use the resolution and actually pull out of the A.F.L.-C.I.O . He also declined to speculate in what type of situation the Carpenters Union might leave the parent organization . " All questions of that sort can only be answered by our executive committee , " Mr. Hutcheson said , " and I ca n't say now just what they might do . " A spokesman for the union emphasized , " this resolution only gives the executive board power to pull out of the A.F.L.-C.I.O . It does n't mean they are going to pull out tomorrow or next month . "                     