@@712950

In March President Truman sent to Congress twenty-one plans covering as many departments and agencies in pursuance of the general reorganization of the Executive branch of the Government contemplated in the report of the Hoover Commission . Altogether , if approved by Congress , these twenty-one plans would have put into operation about 50 per cent of that comprehensive reform program . Under the terms of the report each plan was . to become effective automatically sixty days after its transmission to Congress unless in the meantime it had been rejected by a resolution supported by a constitutional majority in either House . At midnight tonight the sixty-day waiting period for these twenty-one plans expires . And it is an unhappy fact that the casualties to date have been fairly severe , with still more possible before tonight 's deadline . Although " either House " was authorized to introduce and vote on resolutions of disapproval with respect to any or all of the plans submitted , by general consent this responsibility has been largely assumed by the Senate , where it is easier to muster a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put eight of the plans to the test of such resolutions , and ' has rejected five of them . Of the five plans turned down , all but one adhered to the general pattern prescribed in the Hoover Report . The lone exception concerned the National Labor Relations Board . It was rejected in a legislative battle in which Senator Taft led the opposition , charging that the plan departed basically from the Hoover Commission 's recommendations . The four other plans turned down thus far by the Senate were those involving , respectively , the Treasury Department , the Department of Agriculture , the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Federal Communications Commission . Senator Benton declared yesterday that the Administration itself was largely responsible for the setbacks suffered by the reorganization program . The plans , he said , had not been adequately presented , and their urgency had not been supported energetically or convincingly by the agencies involved . There is undoubtedly a good deal of truth in this . This program is one in which the public interest clashed at many points with those of special groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counted upon to put up a united front and to present their case in committee vigorously . The Treasury reorganization plan , for example , was contested by the banking community , which objected to the fact that it would have made the Controller of the Currency more directly responsible to the Treasury Department and hence to the Adminstration . The I. C. C. plan was opposed by both railroad management and railroad labor because , of a similar " fear " that its result might be to curtail the " independence " of that body . On the Senate floor Senator McClellan of Arkansas led the opposition to this plan with a fiery speech in which he charged that the President was intent on a " power grab . " Fortunately , this attitude did not dominate the voting yesterday on the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Power Commissibn plans , and it is to be hoped that it will remain submerged when the three remaining plans that have been challenged come to the floor . For it is an attitude that is alien to the whole spirit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plans emerging from that report consisted in centering in Cabinet officers full authority for reorganizing and controlling their departments , or , in the case of regulating commissions , lodging full executive powers in the chairmen . The report followed that pattern because it was convinced that the Executive Department was cut up into too many agencies , and that authority was too widely diffused for effective direction at the top . Such a condition of affairs ran directly counter to the major purpose behind this whole reorganization plan , which was eminently sound . That was " To establish a clear line of control from the President to these departmental agency heads and from them to their subordinates with correlative responsibility from these officials to the President . "                     