@@744950

The safe arrival of the Celtic at Queenstown , twenty-one days from New-York , in tow of a steam-ship of the same line , indicates that it was to save a large bill for towing that the master of the Celtic declined assistance before . The passengers have undergone an experience very unusual in these days , having , indeed , made what would have been an average Winter voyage thirty years ago , or even less . The fact that the usual voyage of 1853 has become remarkable and almost portentous at the end of 1883 is a striking illustration how small the world is growing , of which we have every day illustrations only less striking . But what is even more remarkable is the evidence the voyage of the Celtic has afforded how much more frequented the North Atlantic is than it formerly was . In the days of sailing packets it was not unusual for a ship to make the voyage without speaking another ship . But now , if a disabled steamer does not drift out of the main channel of transatlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few days , to fall in with another able to render her assistance . We have had news of the Celtic every two or three days since she was reported by the steamer that fell in with her seven days after she left this port . It is true that this very populous-. ness of the North Atlantic adds its own peril to the seas . Indeed , the chief peril to which a modern steam-ship is exposed ? ? the peril of collision in a fog -- is greatly increased by it . The " lane routes " as laid down on paper may be very reassuring to timid travelers , but as a matter of fact a steam-ship goes to her destination by , the shortest line , and that line is the same for all . The passengers who have undergone this tedious voyage have no complaint against the White Star Line , since they all had the option of leaving her for one of the steamers which encountered her , and four of them actually took this course . But it is questionable whether the Captain of the Celtic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by one of the steamers which offered to take them . However confident he may have been of the safety of his own vessel under sail alone , it was evident as soon as her machinery gave way that her voyage would be tedious . And delay to the writer of a letter , who writes in a reasonable expectation that his letter will be delivered within a certain time , may be a serious damage , to which the master of a ? disabled ship has no right to subject him . There must have been an opportunity for the transshipment of mails , since it was found feasible to transfer passengers . Fortunately the cable has been available for the writers of highly important letters , and there has even been time since the breakdown of the Celtic was announced to repeat letters so that the duplicates should be delivered some days in advance of the originals.                     