@@743750

It is a long time since an Administration has come into being with such general good wishes for its success as that of Gen. GARFIELD . Its political opponents have shown a disposition to give it fair play and an open field . The most hidebound of Southern Bourbons have been inclined to " hope for the best " from it . The general feeling was well expressed by Judge DAVIS , in his speech defining his own political attitude , when he said : " Every good citizen should desire the success of the Administration , for we all ought to have a common interest in the glory and in the greatness of the Republic . " He further expressed the sentiment of that independent element which regards the public interest as primary and party interest as secondary in importance in the remark that " the President and his Cabinet are entitled to a fair hearing and to be judged impartially by their acts . " A1.1 classes of Republicans have been particularly anxious that the new President should make no serious mistake at the outset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of embarrassment and difficulty for himself . There was a disposition to overlook the weak spots in the Cabinet , to accept the unobjectionable as equivalent to the meritorious , and to be satisfied . The appointment of Mr. JANES as the head of the Post Office Department and the advancement of his former assistant to the position which he vacated he re were taken as the recognition of a sound principle of selection , as well as a cheerful compliance with the demands of enlightened public opinion . The general hopefulness and good-will with which the new Administration was greeted , and which bade fair to grow stronger so long as its record continued free from serious blemish , makes the feeling of disappointment more grievous that it has already committed a sad and inexcusable error in renewing the appointment of Mr. STANLEY MATTHEWS for the vacant place on the Supreme Bench . President HAYES was undoubtedly induced to make the original nomination by other motives than a conviction of its fitness . For him it was a serious mistake , which left a sorry stain on the closing pages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his action . Mr. MATTHEWS was closely connected with him personally and politically , and had more than once done him a service which was highly appreciated . He may have felt under obligations to his helpful friend and anxious to confer upon him the reward which he chiefly coveted . He may also have been so impressed by the influence of Mr. MATTHEWS 'S abilities and personal qualities , and so far subject to feelings of partiality for him , as to be convinced that he was fit for a place on the bench of our highest tribunal . It is possible that he anticipated no feeling of hostility to the appointment from the public and could not appreciate the objections made . Having made the selection , and perhaps believing it to be good , he displayed his " amiable stubbornness " by refusing to withdraw it , or rather by leaving it in the hands of the Senate without either insisting upon or refusing anything further in regard to it . Whatever may be said in extenuation of the appointment bit President HaYES and of his adherence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of President GARFIELD in insisting upon it for him . President GARFIELD surely was under no obligation to Mr. MATTHEWS , and had no political or personal debts to pay by his advancement . He could hardly be blinded by personal relations to his conspicuous unfitness for the eminent judicial position ' to which he aspired , and certainly he was not ignorant of the very strong opposition which the appointment had evoked , the refusal of the able Judiciary Committee of the Senate in the last Congress to report it favorably , and the reluctance of the Senate to have it to act upon . The expiration of the Congress and the lapsing of the nomination gave an opportunity for making a new and proper appointment without in any way reflecting upon events and motives that pertained to a past Administration , A decent regard for public opinion and the interests of the public service should have led the President to ignore the contest to which the appointment had given rise and to send in a new name . He has not only repeated one of the most injudicious and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without his excuse , and in the face of an expression of public repugnance which that predecessor may not have anticipated . What motives and considerations could have led him into this blunder it is impossible to understand . They are beneath the surface , and can not by any possibility be creditable . He has thrown upon the new Senate and its yet unnamed Judiciary Committee the alternative of rejecting his nomination , an ungracious thing in itself , or of agreeing to an appointment which will weaken in the estimation of the people a Supreme Bench which has already been too much compromised and needs above all things to be strengthened . It is in a crippled condition now . Two members are permanently disabled and one vacancy exists . Important decisions are likely to pass . on record as precedents which have the approval of only a minority of the full bench . The court has been forced , by the indisposition of one Justice , to adjourn for want of a quorum . There were the strongest reasons why the vacancy should be filled promptly and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been , and instead an appointment has been made to which unequivocal and wellfounded opposition has been already expressed .                     