@@704350

Instead of an unbroken expanse of pavement fOr fast traffic , Boston 's iemodeled Huntington Ave .. nue will be a beautiful parkway with a strip of lawn and a ' row of stately trees along the center when the new subway is finished , it was revealed today by Park Commissioner William P. Long . Nearly a year will pass before workmen remove the last piece of scaffolding and lay new . pavement over the last bump ; but plans for making the finished thoroughfare a thing of beauty ' as well as utility , - , are being discussed by , City officials . - Cominissioner Long 's plan pro- . vides that when a Boston-bound motorist drives past the Opera House , where the subway. begins , his eyes will fall on a safety island planted with European Linden trees and a lawn in place of the old ' streetcar reservation . Along the sidewalks , also , there will be trees as far as Massachusetts Avenue . Fr6m there . to Copley Square the row of trees in the center will continue , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Down Center The question of how wide this beautiful strip shall be is under discussion . Mr. Long would be delighted to have it a full 25 feet wide , and so would City Councilor Perlie Dyer Chase of the Back Bay , who gave impetus to the beautification program recently by securing City Council action fa-wiring such improvement . The City Planning Board , which has a voice in such matters , is chiefly interested in having the traffic separator along the center ; according to Frank Malley , . secretary . How wide it shall be is a question upon which . the Planning Board is open-minded . The minimum would be four feet , Mr. Malley states , but the Board would not oppose making it wide enough for at least one row of frees . A maximum , he suggests , should be 20 feet . This would be room enough for an automobile to a U-turn at street corners , and probably for two rows of trees . George G. Hyland , Commissioner of Public Works , whose department , along with the Transit Commission , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition , favors leaving sufficient area for beautification . Property Improvement Such improvement will help to improve the tone of the surrounding area , in the opinion of some observers . " It ' should gradually increase property values along Huntington Avenue by making it an attractive place to shop , " observed Mr. Chase . ' With one row of trees along the center from the Opera House to Copley Square , Mr. Long estimates the project would require at least 250 trees , which can be obtained in New York State for $5 apiece . Planting would be ' done by Works Projects Administration labor . The European Linden trees he has in mind are of the Fulgaris variety , insect-resisting , ' and easy to grow with limited care . Within a few years - they reach the height of 20 feet , and under unusually favorable conditions they eventually grow to a height of 60 feet .                     