@@699450

Reduction of j the Conservative majority in the I Exchange division of Liverpool in the by-election yesterday by 10,0001 votes in a constituency of 50,000 lends significance to the constantly recurring reports in some sections of the British press that reorganization of the National Government is imminent , and that there is a possibility of the retirement of both Mr. Ramsay and Mr. Stanley Baldwin . Such allegations are discounted in all responsible political quarters here , but their persistence has given them prominence . The Daily Express , after a long I campaign of ci iticism of Mr Mac- j Donald , has now come out with an uncompromising demand for his resignation , on the ground of the ' , weakness of the Prime Minister 's ' , protectionist policy in the interests ' of the farmers . This is not taken very seriously ' even by Conservatives Members of this party generally recognize that the tariffs introduced in response to pressure they have themselves put upon the National Government , have to prove their merits in practice before any attempt would be possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who constitute the main phalanx of the Administration , are so convinced of Mr Mac-Donald 's usefulness that it is believed Mr. Baldwin would himself resign if any cabal to oust the Prime Minister would move successful . It is recalled in this connection that Mr. Baldwih , in such action , would be only following an example set by Sir Austen Chamberlain , who resigned in 1922 as a protest against his then chief , Mr. Lloyd George , being turned out of office . The Labor Opposition has been making considerable headway in the constituencies , and its veteran leader , Mr. George Lansbury , also has definitely increased his influence . But Labor is still far too few in its numbers in the House of Commons seriously to threaten the National Government 's position . There is no other political group hostile to the Government that counts Mr. James Maxton representing the left-wing Socialists , and Sir Oswald Mosley among the independents , though both extraordinarily prominent individually , have become for the time being outside skirmishers only . It remains , in a survey of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position of those pro-Government Liberals who are led by Sir John Simon . This group occupies an independent position , but its tendency at present is toward closer relations with Mr rather than the other way .                     