@@781150

A meeting of the Conservative Party was held at Bridgewater House here to-day , which was attended by about 450 peers , members of the House of Commons , and defeated members of the last House . Lord Beaonsfield , after having expressed the hope that the proceedings would be regarded as strictly private , referred to the sudden change in the position of the parties , but he saw no reason to despair . There were already signs of encouragement . If the Conservatives . were true to their principles , he looked forward to their return to power at no distant period . He expressed surprise that Mr. Gladstone , after his repeated expression of a desire to retire , from political controversy , should accept two posts . Lord Beaconsfield denied that he ever intended to resign the Premiership . He recommended that the Conservatives maintain an attitude of dignified op-. position . To a certain extent , Radicalism for the present was triumphant , but nothing would induce him to believe that , its success would be permanent . He attributed the defeat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He considered it impossible for the present Ministry , with its discordant elements , to last long . Sir Robert Peel , Sir Stafford Northcote , and Lords Carnarvon and Salisbury also spoke . It is believed that the Queen 's speech , on the reassembling of Parliament to-morrow , will allude briefly to the results of the general election . Sympathetic reference will be made to the distress in Ireland , but the tone regarding the future will be hopeful . Measures for the amelioration of the condition of tenant farmers will be promised . A renewal of the ballot act and the introduction of a census bill may claim mention . In connection with the mamtenance of European peace , the speech will announce the dispatch to the powers of the circular by Lord Granville , the Foreign Secretary , and indicate the reception it met with at the foreign courts . Allusion will be made to the pacification and reorganization now proceed- ing , in South Africa . The Standard says : " We understand that a Parliamentary commission will be appointed to investigate the revenues of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their application . " The result of the election for Wigtown Burghs= by which Mr. J. McLaren ( Liberal ) was deteated by Mr. Mark Stewart , ( Conservative , ) is attributed to Mr. McLaren 's alleged connection with certain fagot houses , and the disapproval by certain ultra-Presbyterians of the appointment of the Marquis of Ripon and Lord Kenmore to offices under the Crown , they being Roman Catholics . Mr. Samuel Plimsoll ( Liberal ) has offered to resign his seat in Parliament for Derby in favor of Sir William Harcourt . There was a private meeting of Mr. Plimsoll 's supporters last night , and a majority of those present decided to recommend the acceptance of his offer to a public meeting to be held to-night . Mr. Plimsoll is most anxious that his offer , which was made from motives of party loyalty , be accepted . It is stated that the Conservatives are determined to oppose the election of Sir William Harcourt at Derby . It is said that Sir Robert Peel will be invited to stand . A Dublin dispatch says : " There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Home Rulers than at the first . As the struggle about the . Parliamentary Sessional Chairmanship had been fought out , the tone of the meeting was more amicable , and Mr. Parnell was more conciliatory than usual " LONDON , May 20 . ? The meeting last night of the constituents of Mr. Plimsoll was very enthusiastic . After a statement by Mr. Plimsoll giving as a reason for vacating his seat that Sir William Harcourt would further his shipping reforms , a resolution was passed unanimously , but reluctantly . inviting Sir William Harcourt to become their candidate . The Daily News in its leading editorial says the Queen 's speech will have no large outline of a long session to sketch , and no vast enterprises of foreign policy to reveal . The Times , in its leading editorial , expresses the belief that the Queen 's speech will make special reference to the aim which the Governinent set before itself of restoring European concert , and to the fact that the Queen , in con-junction with the powers , is making efforts to secure the carrying into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which remain unfulfilled . The Daily News understands that Mr. Charles Bradlaugh will go to the House of Commons and take the oath either to-day or to-morrow . It is believed that his competence to do so will be controverted.                     