@@707750

? The forthcoming visit of Vice-President Wallace to Chungking is interpreted here as connected with efforts for closer Sino 1 American co-operation to hasten the Japanese collapse . This lends : special interest to outstanding Issues between the United States and China . First , there is the present Inactivity of the American-trained , American-equipped " New Chinese Army " on the China-Burma border which is under Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek 's sole command . Its offensive use for support of Allied action in the near-by North Burma and Assatn theaters has been under discussion for some time . Second , there is the agreement on an exchange rate at which the United States is to refund the Chinese Government for heavy outlays on behalf of the American forces operating in China . Excessive Price Level The " official rate " maintained by the Chinese Government is still only 20 Chinese dollars to one U. S. dollar , which is about six times as high as it was before the Sino-Japanese war in 1937 . But the price level of Chinese commodities has risen much more .. Last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times higher and fuel 643 times higher than in 1937. it is therefore hoped by Americans that an adjustment will he made , also providing for an expected further rise of the price level . Third , there is the decision on measures which would enable the Chinese economy to carry the present burden of a large internal expenditure ? on behalf of the American Army more easily , and to permit possible expansion of American military activities in China , inevitably accompanied by larger outlays of Chinese currency , without aggravating China 's financial economic difficulties . missions on possibilities of Chinese economic financial reforms and in the hope that they will be carried out soon to the advantage of the common war effort . Progress of Democracy - Youth , there is China 's progress toward democratic government . This is equally recognized as a domestic Chinese matter , but similarly is of great interest to the United States for the sake of the fullest collaboration among the United Nations Anna and after the war . Fifth , there is the matter of healing of the rift between the Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in the same category as the former two , because China will become stronger to the extent that it is able to achieve national unification and solidarity . It is hoped that the forthcoming visit of Vice-President Wallace , long known as a warm-hearted friend of China who always supported Chinese claims to American assistance , will help to speed solution of some of these problems which cast , unpleasant shadows on the fundamental cordiality of Sino-American relations .                     