@@712550

New obstacles lie before Paul G. Hoffman , Economic Cooperation Administrator , and his assistants in their task of convincing Congress that the Marshall Plan is assisting the economic integration of Europe . There are ample signs that hope of end ing the system of dual pricing , which is a euphemism for " gouging " one 's neighbor , is about to be ' frustrated by the British who are subsidizing domestic coal prices at1 the expense of Continental buyers . Their unwillingness to end the practice , which is one of those obstacles to the creation of a single unified European market , is almost certain to be followed by other nations and to nullify the efforts of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation to break down the barriers to free trade in Europe . Agreed on Liberalizing Steps This is likely to prove embarrassing to Mr. Hoffman , who left here last month after a Paris conference full of optimism and confidence that Sir Stafford Cripps , British Chancellor of the Exchequer , and the British Government were wholeheartedly converted to the idea or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had agreed with representatives of - the other Organization for European Economic Cooperation nations to try to find ways of eliminating double pricing and to take other steps toward liberalizing intra-European trade . Since then Britain has removed a good many quantitative restrictions on imports and has won praise from many quarters notwithstanding that a good many of the limitations removed were paper steps rather than real ones toward freer trade . In many cases quantitative restrictions were removed on goods priced too high to sell above existing quotas and in others they opened doors to products that are so scarce in countries that produce them that they can not be exported anyway . Some progress has been made toward development of regional trade alliances such as the two being developed by the Benelux countries , France and Italy , and by the United Kingdom and Scandinavia , but it is on the third front of the OEEC 's war on barriers to trade ? that of the difficult problem of dual pricing  --  that Mr. Hoffman faces the danger of an early and definite rebuff , for the British for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , through inspired comment in financial and economic publications , have begun to offer excuses in advance . Coal for Export Up ? 1 Both Britain and Germany , it seems , have decided against changing their present policy of charging foreign purchasers higher prices for coal than are levied against domestic users . The extra charge for British coal to foreign buyers averages now about a ton . The difference this year in the earnings of the British Coal Board between the domestic and the foreign price of coal amounts to about ? 10,000,000 , which is just about the estimated net profit of Britain 's nationalized coal industry . The fact is that the Coal Board relies on a higher export price to balance Its budget . If it were deprived of this additional revenue it would be faced with two alternatives . These are ( 1 ) to raise the price of coal in the home market , which would bring an outcry from local consumers , who are voters , too , and ( 2 ) to close down uneconomic , submarginal mines in Durham and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risk of jeopardizing the Socialist boast of full employment for all . Neither of these alternatives is attractive to the Government , which must soon seek a new mandate from the electorate . The British excuse for the dual pricing of coal and , to a lesser extent of steel , is that of shortages . If they did not restrict home consumption rigidly there would be no exportable surplus , they say . When scarcity is overcome by plenty , they say , dual pricing will end naturally as it is beginning to do in the case of steel . Coal prices even in Europe , according to . British sources , are lower than they would be if the law of supply and demand had free play in the domestic market . The British argue also that their ' goal is cheaper on the Continent than coal from Polish mines , an argument that is. , discounted somewhat by the fact that Polish coal is provided to most Continental countries on a barter basis . If it were only the British who were concerned their Second thoughts on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded so seriously . - Others Might Follow Britain However , if they balk at carrying out ' the understanding , their lead is likely to be followed by most other countries with products that are needed by their neighbors . This would be a serious setback to Mr. Hoffman 's hopes of turning Europe into one large market . Products other than steel and coal would be affected . If Britain insists on- charging her foreign customers more than the price at home for her coal and steel the ' Swedes can hardly be expected to give up the practice of doing likewise with . their- iron ore and soft wood . The latter is already so high in foreign markets that the Dutch have had to- clamp down import quotas on furniture from Sweden because Lhe finished product can be sold cheaper in the Netherlands than the raw ma- , terial . The French probably win insist on retaining dual pricing for phosphates and the Italians will retaliate with high prices for hemp and the Norwegians for whale oil , all of which in aggregate adds to the economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision will be formally announced is not known . But that it will be soon seems apparent . If it is not , there is still a chance that this part of the project for liberalizing European trade may be saved by some sort of quid pro quo when the Finance Ministers meet again in January . The ' time is short , however , for drawing up a report that will . convince Congress - that United States dollars are . assisting in the unification of ' Europe . The Wort on ERP activities and progress must be ' ready by February if it is to . go before Congress by March , when consideration of-the third installment of Marshall aid is expected to come up for review .                     