@@717950

Governor Iffarriman of New York said here today that his name would be placed before the Democratic National Convention " not as a favorite son , but as a candidate " for the Presidential nomination . " If any of the good people of Wyoming want to support the candidate from New York I 'd be mighty proud , " he told Wyoming party leaders at a breakfast that preceded the opening of the state party convention . Up to today Governor Harriman insisted that he was only " an inactive candidate . " A spokesman asserted after today 's statement that the Governor 's basic position as an " inactive candidate " had not been changed . At the state convention Governor Harriman made the keynote address . It marked a series of addresses he is making in six Western states in four days . At the breakfast the Governor said that he had not been able to be an active candidate before because he Ilad been too busy being " an active Governor . " Eisenhower Major Target In his speech Governor Harriman again urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of at members of the Administration . " Now that President Eisenhower has become Candidate Eisenhower , he must be held directly and personally responsible for the failures of his administration , " the Governor declared . The Democrats , he said , had been a responsible party in opposition and had respected the office of President . " We have never sunk and we will not sink to the level of such attacks on the President as were made by Republican leaders on President Roosevelt and President Truman  --  on their character and patriotism , " he added . He asserted that it was not the policies of the Secretary of Agriculture but those of President Eisenhower that had caused " a drop of $4,500,000,000 since 1952 in farm income . " He asserted that it was not alone the policies of Douglas , former Secretary of the Interior , that had led to " giveaways " of public power and timber sites in the West . " These were Eisenhower giveaways , " he declared . He asserted that the " loss of prestige and leadership in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on John Foster Dulles , the Secretary of State . " President Eisenhower is responsible , under the Constitution , for our foreign policy , " he declared , In his Cody appearances Governor Harriman made several references to his association with Wyoming through the Union Pacific Railroad , which his father built . " My father was one of those people who acted while other people were afraid , " he declared . " I was raised in that same tradition . " From Cody Governor Harriman went by chartered plane to , Montana . After brief stops at Billings and Great Falls he made a Jefferson-Jackson Day dinner speech in Missoula . At the Billings Airport the Governor said his status as a candidate was still the original one , but he added : " I 'll be very happy if my friends support me in Chicago . I 've been too busy as a Governor to go into the primaries . " In his Missouli speech Governor Harriman assailed the public power policies of the Eisenhower Administration . West Being ' Throttled ' He charged that President Eisenhower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandoning several public power and irrigation projects . He said that Mr. had been a " willing agent " in these actions . " The only new irrigation project Eisenhower has put under construction is the new sprinkling system at the Burning Tree golf course , " he declared . He said that private power interests in Montana had been ' running advertisements attacking development of Niagara power by the New York State Power Authority . " The advertisements are being run , it says , as a public service , " he added . " Speaking for the people of New York , " he went on , " I can tell you it is a public dis-service . And I regret that the people of Montana have to pay the cost of this propaganda in your electrical bills . "                     