@@715250

Gordon E. Dean has resigned as chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission but has agreed to remain on the job for the next three months so that President Eisenhower 's new chairman can get accustomed to the job . Mr. Dean , a California lawyer who succeeded David E. Lilienthal as chairman July 11 , 1950 , will enter the private practice of law here later in the year . One vacancy exists on the commission , the unexpired term of T. Keith Glennan . President Eisen ' hower is expected to appoint to this vacancy the man he proposes to make chairman . In that way the terms of the present and future chairmen will overlap and insure ' an orderly transfer of responsi-1 bility . These changes will take place at a critical juncture in the development of the atomic energy program . Two major problems are now much in the minds of the commissioners . These are : 1 . The problem of changing the law and the atmosphere so that private United States concerns can build their own reactors for the production of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E. Dean 2 . The problem of changing the law so that , by exchanging more atomic information with foreign countries , the United States can be assured of a continuous and adequate supply of uranium ore . Both of these problems have been discussed in the commission for several months and will soon be placed before President Eisenhower . It seems fairly certain that the commission Will recommend a more liberal policy of exchanging information with certain countries . The commission also is expected to place before ' the President in the next few months recommendations that will give private United States industries an opportunity to build their own atomic power plants without too great a risk of losing the large capital investment involved . No ' revolutionary change is expected to be made in the policy of exchanging information , but a situation is developing in the relations between ' this country and several others that , in the opinion of the commission , requires re-examination . Eighteen countries are now known to be engaged in atomic energy programs . These include the United States , Britain and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on important research and development programs , but also are making atomic weapons . Two others , France and Canada , are already operating large reactors primarily with the view to producing atomic power on a considerable scale . Norvay has , a small reactor , and Sweden is building one , Raw Material a Problem In addition to these countries , Belgium , India and Brazil are interested in building reactors . Other countries engaged in serious atomic research are Australia ; where the British atomic weapon was exploded , the Netherlands , Denmark , Germany , Switzerland , Japan , Italy and New Zealand . One practical problem has developed as a result of this expansion of atomic energy facilities . Countries , such as Belgium , ' that control the best sources of atomic energy are seeking ' aid from the United States in building atomic reactors so they can get on with their own atomic power plans . But because the United States is specificallrforbidden under pre -- sent law to help them with these programs , officials here fear that the United States supply of uranium will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the countries that are supplying us with they raw materials of our atomic program . Dean Pushed Exchange During - his tenure as chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , Mr. Dean has urged that this situation be reviewed . He has also argued that it was in the self-interest of the United States to keep on good terms with responsible scientists within the nom-Communist world , and to exchange . information with them whenever this was in the interests of United States security . His point has been that , since the United States had to devote a great deal of its energies to the production of atomic weapons , while many of our allies were free to concentrate on research into the nucleus of the atom and on the development of new atomic weapons , we probably had more to gain than to lose by relaxing our present regulations governing the exchange of atomic information . During Mr. Dean 's chairmanship several important changes have taken place in the atomic energy program . In the first place , that program is no longer involved in political and ideological controversy on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Lilienthal . In the second place , the program has expanded , not only in terms of the production of atom bombs and ? tiler atomic weapons , but in terms of research and development facilities . Finally , ' during these last three years , the hydrogen bomb experiments have produced results Tar beyond ' the hopes entertained by President Truman when he ordered these experiments three years ago . Thus , Mr. Truman , upon leaving office was able to say : " Recently early last Novemher in the thermonuclear tests lat Eniwetok , we have entered another stage in the world-shaking development of atomic energy . From now on , man moves into a new era of destructive power , Capable of creating explosions of a new order of magnitude , dwarfing the mushroom clouds of Hiroshimap. and Nagasaki . - " We have no reason to think that the stage we have now reached in the release of atomic energy will be the last . Indeed , the speed of our scientific and technical progress over the last seven years shows no signs of abating . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the storm , from one discovery to another , toward yet unforeseeable peaks of destructive power . " The present commissioners , in ? addition to Mr. Dean , ' with the dates when their terms expire , are : Henry D. Smyth , June 30 , 1956 ; Thomas E. Murray , June 30 , 1957 ; and Eugene M. Zuckert , June 30 , 1954 . Meanwhile , efforts were being made behind the scenes by Republican leaders on Capitol Hill to settle the dispute between the two houses over the chairmanship of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy . House Republican leaders are backing Representative W. Sterling Cole of upstate New York and Senate leaders are supporting , Senator Bourke Hickenlooper of Iowa . A decision is expected next week , and the guess here is that Mr. Hickenlooper will be named .                     