@@726750

In Oregon , on the south bank of the Columbia , the noncombatants already are reconnoitering a major 1968 political battle-ground . Two GOP " noncandidates " for president ? California Gov . Ronald Reagan and Illinois Sen. Charles H. Percy  --  this month have visited the state which pioneered the primary that everybody runs in , whether he wants to or not . Both spoke and looked like the candidates they say they are n't . Both will be on the Oregon primary ballot next spring along with Michigan Gov . George Romney , New York Gov . Nelson A. Rockefeller , and former Vice-President Richard M. Nixon . In the past the Oregon primary has often provided a turning point on the road to nomination for candidates and noncandidates alike . The state already has begun to prepare itself for a pivotal role again next year . A militant Spanish-American civil-rights leader may play a telling part in New Mexico 's election next year . Just how telling no one yet knows . But Reies Tijerina may very well stir up some voter backlash . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unsuccessfully to take over certain United States Forest Service lands . And on last June 5 his group raided a northern New Mexico courthouse where 10 of their members had been arraigned that day on charges of unlawful assembly . The fiery Mr. Tijerina seeks to regain from the federal government millions of acres of land which he says were granted to ancestors of his impoverished Spanish-American followers by the kings of Spain and the Mexican Government . Political observers think many non-Spanish and non-Mexican voters will cast their ballot against anyone who sides with the Tijerina cause . That may mean trouble for incumbent Republican Gov . David Cargo . Democrats are busily berating him for his alleged Tijerina sympathies . At Mr. Tijerina 's recent trial in Las Cruces , the Governor testified that the Spanish-Americans may indeed have reason to protest . Word is getting around that Mr. Nixon may jump into the California Republican presidential primary next year . It would mean taking on Governor Reagan , the state 's popular " favorite son . " It also would mean shattering the party unity forged in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would court political catastrophe for Mr. Nixon . Others , citing the latest California poll , are not so sure . It shows Mr. Nixon the favorite presidential hopeful of 38 percent of the state 's Republicans polled . Governor Rockefeller came next with 24 percent and Governor Reagan trailed as the choice of only 15 percent of those polled . Most Republicans , while not discounting a dramatic Nixon entry into the California primary , doubt it will happen . But the talk is persistent enough to nettle the party in California . Trends ... The dwindling drone of buzzing bees has Western farmers worried . The pesticide Sevin sprayed on some crops  --  cotton , sweet corn , soybeans , and sorghum ? is wiping out whole colonies of bees vital to other crops . In California 's Butte County , grain-sorghum growers using Sevin in a war against the corn earthworm , wiped out 7,000 bee colonies in the process . And now some 150,000 acres of almond trees , which produce almost no nuts unless there are plenty of bees at blossom time , stand to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to help them bring in a heavy harvest . But with recent Sevin inroads into the beehive , seed output will be down next year . California prunes are in like peril . And so are cantaloupes . Heavy Sevin spraying still to come promises to cut further inroads into bee colonies . The situation is considered critical . How and why ... In Hawaii the thing to do is go to the eruption . Halemaumau fire pit is sputtering again . It is the first eruption on Kilauea crater since 1961 . Fountains of molten lava are spewing 50 to 100 feet high . From all over , visitors flock to watch the dramatic show . On a good day some 500 volcano viewers an hour drive up to the crater . Others fly over it on nightly " volcano flights . "                     