@@660050

I can still see Gaelan marching boldly out of his French-immersion elementary school that Friday afternoon last April , waving a letter in the air and shouting , " OK Mom , I 'm about to make you a lot of money ! " A cello , safety patrol raincoat , and brick-heavy backpack tumbled into our van with Gaelan in tow . He thrust the letter at me , saying that Miramax Film 's casting director and crew had come to school that morning and wanted him in a film . Frozen , double-parked , and oblivious to the parents ' cars behind me , I read : The producers of a movie called " Chocolat " ( now in theaters ) were looking for a 10-to-12 year-old boy who spoke French ; and the casting director , Suzanne Smith , was pleased to invite Gaelan , along with my husband and me , for a film test the next morning at the ballroom of the local Marriott . Before Saturday morning 's obligatory soccer , we accompanied Gaelan to the hotel , where a wave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parents and children , and into the screening room with Ms. Smith . Two weeks later when I returned home from teaching at the local college , Gaelan greeted me at the door . " It 's the woman from the film , Mom . I got a part ! Hurry , she 's on the phone ! " From the beginning , like the romance and comedy of " Chocolat " itself , we experienced elements of a modern fairy tale . Unsought and unexpected , our son was told he had a part in a Miramax movie . A week later , - child " star " and " stage mother , " with cello , bookpacks , and stuffed " Bear " in hand - we left in a black limousine and settled into business class on a Paris-bound plane . Soon we were being whisked past golden safflower fields and plane-trees to the medieval walls and lanes of Flavigny-sur-Ozerain , where Caesar once defeated the Gallic chief Vercingetorix . In " Chocolat , " the free-spirited Vianne ( Juliette Binoche ) transforms the people in a closed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chocolate , her tolerance , and her humanity . Likewise , acceptance , humor , and kindness permeated the movie set and everyone on it , a tone director Lasse Hallstrom ( " The Cider House Rules , " " My Life As a Dog " ) gently modeled , as did the producers ( Alan " Papa " Blomquist , Leslie Holleran , and Kit Golden ) . Gentle hands and discerning eyes outfitted Gaelan in the slightly musty clothes of his father 's 1950s childhood . Suddenly , he had a dressing room , a trailer with his name on it , and a village of artists and support people to answer questions , guide him from place to place , and bring him anything ( including chocolate ) whenever he wanted it . During eight weeks of shooting , we shared long , catered gourmet lunches with cast and crew - Lena Olin , Juliette Binoche , Alfred Molina , Leslie Caron , Carrie-Anne Moss , and many more , plus 200 tradesmen , electricians , drivers , and artisans - all jumbled together in happy confusion under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a pool ; " school " upstairs in a mansion and later a trailer ; weekly cello lessons with a beautiful Parisian musician who sped down on the TGV ( France 's fast-speed train ) ; and Gaelan 's 11th birthday in Disneyland Paris . While each day differed , a rhythm centered around the basics of life - hotels , meals , and work on the set . Each evening 's " call sheet " told us the next day 's schedule , usually starting with a 9 a.m. pickup , then divided up into hours for " school " or filming . On filming days , Gaelan and his " film brother " Harrison Pratt donned the well-laundered , slightly frayed clothes of 1959 : woolen shorts and sweater vests , knee socks , pointed-toe patent leather shoes , and an overcoat . Naomi , the hairdresser from London , sheered his curls and jagged ends into a sleek cap . Gaelan 's hair and makeup consisted of a quick hand swept across his forehead and a " Brilliant ! You look great . " Later , cast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , England , where Salisbury , Bath , Stonehenge , crop circles , country mansions , the Euro2000 soccer tournament , and stars Judi Dench and Johnny Depp glowed . But it was in France during those late spring weeks that magic and real life melted together . Gaelan found friends among the other children and the patient directors , assistant directors , producers , actors , actresses , cameramen , craftsmen , and drivers - all the industrious occupants who moved so effortlessly around this ancient village , whose " real " occupants had stepped aside to serve fiction . Producer Alan Blomquist vacated his trailer ( or office ) so the children could watch the latest " rushes " ( reels of film shot on a given day ) ; actor Peter Stormare wrestled or played tag with the youngest ; and actress Moss joined the children in craft projects . Lasse , Peter , and assistant Johann Hallstrom even challenged Gaelan and a friend to a light-hearted soccer match , where they strategically lifted and moved the boys like chess pieces to ensure they scored . As chaperone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the media-canny , I floated and observed , buoyed by the playful energy and spirit of openness and mutual discovery . In Flavigny , one of the " prettiest villages in France , " we 'd edge up to the lanes closed off for filming , cross and recross the square between cautious calls of tournage ( filming in process ) to discover surprises around any corner : Alfred diligently videotaping " memories " with his own camera ; Juliette , hair flung back like an exclamation or head bent in conference with Lasse , finalizing some detail ; or actor John Wood , a novel under his arm , studying the ruins of St. Peter 's Abbey . In the process of filming , everything and everyone moved ; history and its artifacts , time and sequence , were transformed and elastic . Costumes , props , sets , caterers , drivers , site managers , nannies , and film crews - the trade tools of filmmaking everywhere - changed . Actors , actresses , producers , directors , and support crew traveled home , made parts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Flavigny , the West Country , or London for more scenes . " Chocolat " moved through a dozen script changes , each version on a different-colored paper ; then went from paper to hundreds of hours of recorded film . In this " hurry up and wait " profession , actors summoned to the set before breakfast may spend the rest of the day waiting for a few minutes of shooting , then wait days for another call . Scenes , scheduled to make the most efficient use of each high-priced artist and the elements , are shot entirely out of sequence without any attempt to follow the actual timeline of the story . While each scene required dozens of people and hours to prepare , shoot , and reshoot , it would eventually be cut or edited to a few seconds of film . Again , there was a sense that the directors had the power to control time and life , in and out of the movie . Yet beneath the fable and fun , real emotions snagged each person caught up in the production . The real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our first week in England , sobered everyone . Less substantial concerns focused on everything from cuts to our young star 's number of appearances to access to the much-coveted " children 's " lap-top computer ( our e-mail link with the outside world ) ; to rainy days and massive mud puddles at the Durslade Farm location . Day-to-day life with a 10-year-old can frazzle , and I worried about older sons back home . Occasionally we 'd balk at the need to give up our own sense of " where-to-be-when " to the discretion of call sheets and their decisions - details of when we should rise , stay on set , or be sent away . Our end , as child actor and chaperone , came abruptly when Gaelan 's last three scenes were scrapped . We had understood from the beginning that film work is temporary and changeable . Yet our excitement , and the warmth and charm of the story of " Chocolat , " continued to spread and bind us into its cinematic realms of the real and the imagined . Gaelan may or may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and acted his way into this year 's delightful Washington Revels ' production , a saga of Celtic stories celebrating solstice and renewal . At home , he spends hours " directing " his friends in endless comedies , dramas , and special effects , all behind the lens of the family camcorder . Of his time on the set , I hope he remembers how good people were , how much each loved the work , and how , more than his " cuteness , " the professionals treasured his natural humor and cooperative spirit . Perhaps he 'll recall how a strange wind blew him to France , and how real people live in medieval villages beautiful enough to be movie sets . Mostly , however , I 'd like him to know that his involvement in " Chocolat " was all a fantastic gift . <p> ( c ) Copyright 2001 . The Christian Science Publishing Society 