@@781850

To-day has been an uneventful one for Mr. Blaine , " said Dr. Johnston at 9:30 o'clock this evening when met at the door of the Blaine residence . " I have just come from his bedside and found him holding his own . The fact that he does not seem to lose strength is encouraging . He converses whenever permitted ; in fact , is Inclined to talk too much for his own good . He assimilates his food , and that alone gives him the necessary strength to combat the disease and withstand relapses should they come . " I can add nothing more except to say that I see nothing in his condition to-night to warrant apprehension on the part of his family and friends of any immediate danger , I shall not go to the house again to-night unless unexpected complications set in , and there were no outward indications when I loft him that he would be threatened with anything to demand my presence . " The house was more brilliantly lighted tonight than for some nights past . Harper 's enters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well sustain the character of this periodical , the oldest of our best magazines and the equal of the very foremost , Mr. Ralph 's valuable Northwestern papers are now to be followed by a series on the South , and the first of the number has an appropriate subject , " The Old Way to Dixie . " Mr. Ralph describes the steamboat voyage and W. T. Smedley sup. - plies the illustrations . The late Theodore Child 's paper on " Proletarian Paris " deals with rag pickers , tenement houses , marriages , and manufacturing . Poultney Bigelow 's account of his leaving Russia last Summer has many Illustrations by his companion , Mr. Remington . The paper on Tennyson by Annie Fields is timely and interesting . In fiction the number is one of the most striking recently issued . Miss Woolson 's new story , " Horace Chase , " is begun , Mr. Howells has a farce , Mr. Davis contributes a story , A. Conan Doyib 's first chapters in a new story are printed , and there are short tales by Elizabeth Stuart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Folger , United States Navy , who recently resigned his position as Chief of the Naval Ordnance Department on account of ill health , has received a letter from President Harrison accepting his resignation , to lake effect Jan. 2 next and saying : " It is duo to you that I should say further that your achievements in the Washington gunshop and as Chief of the Bureau of Ordnance in the Navy Department have been most notable and creditable . You have done a very groat work for the navy , and I beg to express the hope that with restored health yon may yet further oentribute to the renown of a distinguished profession . "                     