@@728850

" Equality for men " may become the new cry among social reformers in Britain . A national insurance tribunal has ruled that if a husband does the housework while a wife goes to work , the wife can not claim benefit for him if she is off work for any reason . Mrs. Vera Mills of Coventry appealed against refusal of compensation on account of her husband Albert Mills when she was off work in April and June . By mutual arrangement she works while he stays home . The appeal was refused , just as the allowance had been . However , the benefit could have been claimed if Mr. Mills had been a child , which he is not , a housekeeper , which he is not , or a wife , which he is not . Being a dutiful husband he is left out of the reckoning . It does n't seem fair , does it ? 9 Drilling at Climping A Texas-style oilfield in the green seacoast county of Sussex ? Could be . A seismic survey suggests an underground reservoir of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And a Texas oil firm wants to do some drilling to check out its survey . Howls of protest , as might be expected , have gone up from villagers who do n't care to have their countryside dotted with oil rigs . At first the firm relented . But now it has dug in its heels and says it will put up a fight to start drilling at Climping. 9 Tapping treasures Britain may help develop the untapped underground resources of Siberia . A high-powered team from the Soviet State Planning Commission is due in London early in September . Development of Siberia , particularly its mineral resources , is expected to be high on the agenda . The Russian team is returning a visit made to the Soviet Union in March by the Confederation of British Industry , led by its then director-general , John Davies . Mr. Davies is now Britain 's Minister of Technology . 9 Coloreds ' gains Signs of burgeoning black power in Britain may grab the headlines . But observers of race relations are encouraged by other signs . Namely , that many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ road safety and housing , and that their success is leading others to try also for elective office . Significantly , on being elected , these officials do not beat a partisan color drum . They speak to a wide spectrum of problems representing the entire community , not merely those of Colored people . Experts say that the more Coloreds feel they represent the whole community , the less opportunity there will be for black-power agitation and demands for greater Colored participation . e Welcome wail Moaning Minnie and Wailing Winnie , air-raid sirens which curdled Londoners during the 1940 blitzkrieg , may be heard here again ? under different circumstances . They have been recruited as part of a new warning network set up to alert riverside families of flood danger . Disastrous flooding may occur only once in a decade . But London wants to be prepared for the worst . So a flood-alert system is in full operation and will remain so until next April , when the threat abates . Sirens will warn the public in good time of possible trouble . Then households can turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are protected by the new warning system . 9 ' 1 . ? ? as others see us ' Some youths in Nottingham , who prided themselves on their long locks , had second thoughts when confronted by their pictures on television . They got their hair cut pronto . The experiment was part of a local man 's research . He believes closed-circuit TV can be used effectively to help shy people gain self-confidence .                     