@@705050

Royal Air Force bombers swarmed far and wide over Germany and German-occupied territories again this morning and last night , fulfilling their twofold task of smashing war factories and communication lines and doing their utmost to prevent Nazi ground troops from sailing from the Channel ports in an attempt to invade Britain . An Air Ministry official said British attacking planes bombed twenty or more places during the night , including Berlin , where the target this time was an important munitions factory , the name of which was not disclosed . Three of the raiding planes were reported missing . Strong forces of R. A. F. bomb . ers last night attacked Germany 's potential invasion bases on the French coast , enemy communications , oil depots and other targets in Germany , it was officially stated this morning . Air-raid sirens routed Berliners from their beds again early today and sent them to shelters for an hour and twelve minutes , The Associated Press reported . Heavy anti-aircraft fire was heard on the capital 's outskirts . Flying into a near-gale , the night bombers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dover dispatches said . " Terrific " Explosions Seen This morning reports by returning British raiders told the usual story : explosions and fires wherever they went . The munitions factory selected for attack was situated in a suburb northwest of Berlin  --  a district where heavy machinery is manufactured . One R. A. F. observer said he saw four " terrific " explosions after a bomb was dropped on the plant . Later other bombers declared they had witnessed more explosions and fires , all within the factory area . French Minister of State Jean Berthelot reported at Vichy after an inspection tour that six nights of bombing at Havre had killed ninety - four French civilians , wounded 200 and caused heavy German casualties , according to the United Press . The port was badly damaged and blocked by sunken ships , he said . Oil refineries , so important for the German air force , as well as other branches of Chancellor Hitler 's military machine , again were set afire . At Sterkrade , north of Duesseldorf , a big fuel plant was bombed time and again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fires broke out . " After one building had been blazing a short time , a violent explosion took place . When the pilots left the scene they saw a vast pall of smoke lying over the whole area . A flier assigned to help blast this plant dropped only one " stick " of high explosives , then flew to Amsterdam , where he released the rest of his destructive cargo on the famous Fokker airplane works . Fires Seen Sixty Miles Away Oil refineries at Gelsenkirchen and Cologne came in for similar treatment . Fires started at Gelsenkirchen were seen by R. A. F. crews when they were sixty miles off on their way home , according to the Air Ministry . Other blazes lighted the skv over Cologne after refineries were bombed there , a particularly large one being visible at the northeast end of the target . The raids on Cologne also included an attack on a power station and a railroad yard . Other railroad centers bombed were at Hamm , Soest , Duisburg , Gremberg and Westerholt . At Duisburg bombs burst on an electric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then took fire , giving off a red glow . A canal dock in the Ruhr district , dock areas of Rotterdam and the Hammstede airport and the Veere seaplane base in the Netherlands also underwent bombing attacks . From shortly after dark yesterContinued day until an early hour today British bomber forces kept up their nightly harassing blows on the potential German invasion bases at Flushing , Havre , Boulogne , Calais and Dunkerque , as well as on the German big guns that have been hurling shells from Cap Gris Nez in France onto English soil . The Air Ministry said the Flushing docks were located without difficult. , and attacked with explosive and incendiary bombs . There , as at other invasion ports , the story was the same  --  fires and damage to piers . During the attack on Boulogne , where fliers reported direct hits on No. 4 and No. 7 Basins , one R.A.F. bomber was intercepted by two German planes , which attacked simultaneously , one from astern and the other on the port beam . The R. A. F. rear gunner sprayed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though hit in several places by machinegun and anti-aircraft fire , the plane returned ? to England in safety . Air Ministry officials said the long-range gun emplacements on Cap Gris Nez received " special attention , " and after making that assertion they added that " bombs were seen to burst close to the emplacements and near the searchlight batteries that form part of the ground defense system . " The German long-range guns on the French coast opened a bombardment across the Strait of Dover with a single shell . It exploded harmlessly . Later several more shells fell in the Dover district in spasmodic fashion . Some damage was done to houses and there were a few casualties . Within the last few days a Coastal Command flying boat of the Royal Australian Air Force , while returning from a long reconnaissance of German shipping movements along the west coast of France , had a twenty-minute encounter off Ushant with three Messerscnmitt fighter planes which ' were accompanying two Dornier bombers . London officials said the Australians beat off the , German fighter attacks and saw their bullets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was said . Nazis Report New Defense BERLIN , Oct. 2 ( HI  --  Germany recently has developed ? special tactics for combating air raiders at night , the High Command declared today . These were said to comprise new technique-by " night chasers " and a new type of artillery defense . Details were not announced , but the High Command reported the tactics were so successful that " nearly everywhere the foe was hindered from carrying out his raiding plans . " Last night British bombers caused damage by fire to " numerous " apartment houses in Western German cities . One group was turned back from Berlin by anti-aircraft fire , the High Command said , adding that the only damage in the capital was caused by incendiary and explosive bombs dropped on a brick yard in a suburban area . 