@@707650

On Aug. 24 , 1942 , when he accepted the Republican nomination for Governor , Thomas E. Dewey said : " Let me say right now that I shall devote the next four years exclusively to the service of the people of New York State . " On the following Feb. 25 , shortly after his inauguration as Governor , his secretary said in a statement authorized by him : " He is not and will not become a candidate for any other nomination during his term . " These two commitments  --  the one to " devote the next four years exclusively to the service of the people of New York State , " the other " not to become a candidate for any other nomination " ? have shaped the course which Mr. Dewey has followed with regard to national politics since his election . An excellent Governor , he has continued to emphasize that he is not a candidate for the Presidency . He has entered no Presidential primaries . On the contrary , he has voiced his " strongest disapproval " of , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the primaries in his name . This is the official position , but meantime Mr. Dewey 's name continues week after week to lead the list of Republican candidates in the unofficial polls . His great popularity is impressive . He is far out in front in the Gallup survey . He is the favorite in most local polls . And while he is still not a candidate for the Presidency , the statement is continually made without contradiction that if he is offered his party 's nomination he will have no alternative but to accept it . The situation thus created is unusual and , so far as the processes of public discussion and democratic decision are concerned , unfortunate . Mr. Dewey is at this moment unquestionably the leading Republican candidate for the Presidency . But because Mr. Dewey is , by his own choice , merely a receptive and not an active candidate for the Presidency , he can not take the platform to debate national and international issues . Barely three months before his party meets to choose a leader whose immense responsibility it may be to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace and to start the whole world on its way to recovery , Mr. Dewey is silent on the sidelines . He can not discuss the burning issues with which the whole country is concerned . He can not discuss measures to win the war , like the proposed National Service Act . He can not discuss problems of Federal taxation . He can not discuss nation-wide strikes or the way to put an end to them . He can not talk about the shape of the forthcoming peace or the extent of the commitments we should make to it . For all these matters are national issues ; and , by reason of his own self-imposed commitments , Mr. Dewey is not a candidate for national office . The unfortunate consequences of this situation are not measured only by the fact that the great public debate of an election year now goes forward strangely without the participation of the most likely nominee of the Republican party . Equally unfortunate is the effect upon the elective process itself . Mr. Dewey 's voluntary withdrawal from the debate permits politicians in different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpret his silence on controversial issues as they wish to interpret it for the sake of the most practical political results . Thus , in parts of the country where old-time isolationist sentiment is still relatively strong it becomes possible for local Republican leaders to recall Mr. Dewey 's speeches of early 1940 , without the benefit of the correction that would be supplied by a strong and continuous affirmation of his position now. ? In other parts of the country , and on other issues , it is possible - to reverse this practice . In short , as matters stand , Mr. Dewey tends to become a man of all colors to all people . To the extent that this happens , the pre-convention campaign loses meaning . We believe that this situation should be ended promptly by Mr. Dewey 's own choice . Either Mr. Dewey ought now to reaffirm the statement made when he accepted his nomination for Governor , to the effect that he will " devote the next four years exclusively to the service of the people of New York State " ; or he ought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was given in complete good faith , it is necessary for him to depart from it . In this case he should address himself boldly and frankly and vigorously to the great issues of the day , so that the nation , and more particularly the delegates to be chosen for the ' Republican convention will know clearly where he stands .                     