@@727350

SAIGON , Viet Nam , Sept. 10 Tuesday ? A contingent of 100 officers and men of the 27th marine regimental landing team flew out ? of Viet Nam to the United States today as the United States command began the return home of the first major unit in the war . Senior American officers said , however , they did not regard the start of the 27th regiment 's departure as a deescalatibn step . Only 800 of the 27th 's men actually will be going home . Two thousand with time left on their first tour in Viet Nam have been sprinkled thru other marine units and another 1,500 men had already left the country as casualties , transfers , and for discharges . Wo n't Cut Forces The unit-initially 4,500 men strong-killed more than 2,000 enemy , soldiers during its seven months of combat in Viet Nam 's northernmost five provinces below the demilitarized zone , headquarters reported . It lost 292 men . " The repositioning of the marine unit will not reduce the level of forces authorized in South Viet Nam , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Viet Nam . Rushed Over in February " The 1st brigade , 5th infantry division mechanized , arrived in Da Nang on July 31 as a scheduled replacement unit for the marine regiment . The 1st brigade , 5th division , is now operating in Quang Tri province following a period of orientation training . " The 27th regiment was sent to Viet Nam last February to bolster allied forces during the height of the Tet offensive , when the enemy command pressed its strongest drive of the war . Abrams ' headquarters said the first contingent of the 27th marines to leave Viet Nam , 100 officers and men , departed by jet transport from Da Nang air base . The remaining elements will leave Da Nang aboard seven other flights over the next three days . Returns to Hawaii One battalion of the unit will return to Hawaii , where it was stationed before it was pressed into service in Viet Nam . The battalion will be assigned to the 1st marine brigade at Kaneohe Bay , Oahu . The rest of the regiment will rejoin the 5th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the marines ' over-all training program . On the battlefield yesterday United States marines clashed twice with North Vietnamese troops pressing in on an outpost called the Rockpile just below the central portion of the demilitarized zone DMZ , military spokesmen said . Kill 34 in 2 Clashes The marines reported killing 34 troops in the two clashes that were within two miles of each other . Marine casualties were put at 5 killed and 23 wounded . While the two fights went on northwest of the Rockpile , other marine units sweeping below the outpost turned up a huge weapons cache in an extensive bunker complex .                     