@@731450

The Asiatic Petroleum Corporation , accused by the state of having withheld home-heating oil from the market last summer and selling it at exorbitant prices in the winter , agreed in court yesterday to sell specified amounts here this summer and next , when such ? fuel is cheaper . The agreement was part of aI stipulation under which Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz dropped charges against Asiatic and three other members of the Royal Dutch Shell Petroleum Group ? the Shell Oil Company , Compania Shell de Venezuela and Shell Curacao . They had been charged with continuing to divert one million barrels of home heating oil last year and selling it at three times the going price after the imposition of the Arab oil embargo last November . Asiatic , which Mr. Lefkowitz said had not reported its store of oil to Federal energy officials , also agreed under the stipulation to report all of its heating-oil sales and inventories to the Lefkowitz office every month for two years beginning Aug. 1 . Misinformation Charged Shell Oil  --  which the Attorney General accused of having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it actually was aware of Asiatic 's store ? agreed to review all sales offers made Ito it by Asiatic and to repor't on them to , Mr. Lefkowitz 's office . The other two defendants , both shippers of petroleum products , were bound by the stipulation , too , Mr. Lefkowitz said . The four companies were accused last February of a scheme in which one million barrels42 million gallons ? normally meant for Shell , were diverted to Asiatic . Then after the embargo , while Shell was selling its wholesalers heating oil at 14 cents a gallon , Asiatic released oil to the New York market at an average price of 48 cents a gallon . Spokesmen for both Asiatic and Shell said the stipulation agreement which ended their trial was a " vindication " of // the companies . " What vindication ? " Mr. Lefkowitz said later in an interview . " We got them to agree to several things these companies never had to do before . They have to report to us now , What 's the win ? You know who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get fuel at summer prices and not have to wait until November , when the price goes up . " The Profits Made Although yesterday 's agreement ends one facet of the Attorney General 's investigation into the Asiatic-Shell dealings , the question of the profits made during the period remains unanswered . The agreement ended only the trial under which Mr. Lefkowitz was seeking an injunction forbidding Asiatic , Shell and the other companies from continuing their alleged illegal practices . He said late yesterday that the agreement " does not preclude the possibility that the grand jury might have some further action to take . " Following the complaint against the Royal Dutch Shell Group last February , Mr. Lefkowitz asked that a special grand jury be empaneled to consider the possibilities that criminal violations of the state 's antitrust laws had been committed by large oil companies . Last week the Mobil Oil Corporation was indicted on charges that it sought to eliminate independent competition by forcing its dealers to buy its own brands of auto ' accessories . Investigative sources say that additional indictments have been voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been reported out . Of the million barrels of oil noted in Mr. Lefkowitz 's original complaint , 400,000 had already been sold at the time of the Attorney General 's charges . Of the remaining 600,000 barrels , all but 145,000 ? more than Fix million gallons  --  had been committed for sale . Under the stipulation , Asiatic must offer 250,000 barrels to its New York suppliers  --  including Shell  --  between Aug. 1 and Oct. 31 of this year . In the same period of 1975 it must " use its best efforts " to offer the same amount , or 25 per cent of its total sales and storage of home-heating oil . Shell , under the agreement , must consider the offers it receives from Asiatic and report to Mr. Lefkowitz its decision on whether it decided to buy or not . The stipulation states further : " In the event any of the parties herein shall violate , or fail to fulfill , any of the obligations , undertaken by it in this stipulation , such party shall be subject to contempt proceedings upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stipulation in Supreme Court Justice Harry B. Frank 's office , Harold F. , the lawyer representing Shell , said : " This is a complete vindication of Shell Oil Company . " And Ralph L. , representing Asiatic , said : " Asiatic considers the settlement of the case against it a complete vindication , demonstrating it had not been implicated in any wrongdoing . "                     