@@745650

Mr. JAY GOULD and his associates of the Manhattan Railway Company discovered yesterday that there are powers in the communiliy which even they may not safely defy . Accustomed to shape legislation to their liking , deterred by no fear of the courts , whose favoring decisions have so often cleared the ? way for ; the consummation of their worst designs , and having the utmost contempt for the public right and the public convenience , they decided on Tuesday to make short work of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers by ceasing to operate the Second and Ninth avenue lines of the elevated roads . And we have no doubt that they confidently expected to carry this harsh , arbitrary , and altogether uncalled-for policy to a successful result . But these gentlemen had not correctly measured the forces which they must have foreseen would be stirred to instant hostility by their action , and they had entirely failed to take note of- one somewhat serious obstacle to the course they so hastily adopted . The solid organization , great strength , and sagacious leadership of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fear , by Mr. GOULD and his friends . The certainty of an immediate and complete interruption of their business through the retaliatory action of the brotherhood seems to have been overlooked . Moreover , they took no account of the just anger of the public whose " kind indulgence " they had the sublime audacity to ask while carrying out their policy of proscription . But the most disastrous fault in their reckoning was their neglect to consider the effect upon their own charter and corporate existence of a refusal to perform the functions which the law makes obligatory upon them . To this important omission Railroad Commissioner O'DONNELL called their attention yesterday morning , and with such convincing effect that they retired in all haste from the position they had airily assumed and ordered the suspended service to be resumed . There can be no doubt that the action of the company was without authority of law . The managers of a railroad can not at pleasure suspend its operation and ails peal to the " kind indulgence " of the public to be held blameless . Have Messrs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue of the freight war of 1882 ? The decision delivered in that case by Judge DAVIS , of the Supreme Court , has never been appealed from and is to-day the law of the State . The question involved was " whether the people of the State can invoke the power of the courts to compel the exercise by railroad corpora tions of the most useful nubile functions with which they are clothed , " a question raised by the refusal of the New York Central and the Erie Railroad to receive and transport freight at the time of the strike of the freight handlers . In affirming the right of the people , as represented by the Attorney-General , to compel the railroads by a peremptory writ of mandamus to resume the discharge of their duties , Justice DAVIS said that the refusal of the freight handlers to do further work unless their wages were raised from 17 cents per hour to 20 cents did not constitute " a case of unlawful duress . " The company had a lawful right to take the ground that the old rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the consequences of doing so were an inability to exercise their corporate franchises to the great injury of the public , they can not be heard to assert that such consequences must be shouldered and borne by an innocent public . " And in conclusion the principles of law involved were summed up in this concise and pointed form : " These facts reduce the question to this : Can railroad corporations refuse or neglect to perform their public duties upon a controversy with their employes over the cost or expense of doing them ? We think this question admits of but one answer . The excuse has in law no validity . The duties imposed must be discharged at whatever cost . They can not be laid down or abandoned or suspended without the legally expressed consent of the State . The trusts are active , potential ; and imperative , and must be executed until lawfully surrendered ; otherwise a public highway of great utility is closed or obstructed without an process recognized by law- This is something no public officer charged with the same trusts and duties in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mandamus or indictment . " With even greater force this reasoning applies to the action of the Manhattan Company in issuing the order to take off the trains on two of its lines . The employes of that company were not " on strike . " It is not known that they intended to strike , and Col. HAIN 'S " information " to that effect may be set down as a wholly imaginary basis for a diplomatic explanation of his order . The engineers continued to discharge their duties faithfully pending the company 's decision upon their application for a rearrangement of the schedule of wages and hours under which they - worked . And the brotherhood to which the men belong is known to be the most conservative , law-abiding , prudent , businesslike , and reasonable of all:organizations of its class . Obviously this was not a case of " unlawful duress , " and Mr. GOULD and his followers did wisely in recalling with all promptness their illegal and illadvised order . But it is not merely for an act which exposes them to indictment or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manhattan Railway are deserving of censure . They have shown themselves to be absolutely indifferent to the comfort and convenience of their patrons . They have manifested a coldblooded willingness to maim and kill their passengers in the process of acquiring information as " to who are for and who against " the company . For no man accustomed to take thought about the safety of his body can conceal from himself the dangers to which the policy the company has attempted to pursue exposes all persons who ride in its cars during the continuance of the present difficulty . Overcrowding and confusion are not the only perils involved . It is known that the company actually proposes to put its engines in charge of inexperienced men picked up here and there in machine shops and the engine rooms of factories and apartment houses in case the men now employed shall be driven by its unjust course to leave their engines . When these men were perpetrating the monstrous impositions by which they installed themselves in charge of the rapid transit system of the city they showed themselves to be without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public and cheat innocent investors . They now show themselves to be equally careless about the personal safety and the legal rights of their patrons . It is perhaps not to be regretted that the chance to teach these gentlemen a needed lesson has been furnished by their own obstinacy . To what extent it will be necessary to carry this course of instruction will depend upon the wisdom shown by them in their further decisions in the matter which their employes are pressing upon their attention .                     