@@705150

One of the heaviest aerial bombing attacks of the war was directed against this vital British industrial city last night , accounting for heavy property damage , and inflicting an estimated 1,000 casualties . Scarcely a street escaped the pounding of the raiders . During the intensive bombardment which was described as the worst continuous attack experienced by any city  --  including London  --  since the siege of Britain began . Mr. Herbert Morrison , Minister of Home Seem* , came from London to direct the first relief efforts , which included halting of a caravan of refugees seeking safety in the country . As citizens continued rescue work today amid debris and still-burning buildings , Royal Air Force pilots took fire hoses from the hands of fatigued firemen , and played streams of water on the smouldering heaps which are all that remain of some of Britain 's finest examples of Tudor architecture . The aeronautical expert of the British Press Association said tie Germans " failed lamentably " to hit military targets . Several other Midlands towns were raided , and in one , 24 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ LONDON , Nov. 15 ( Th ? Scores of public and private buildings , including hospitals , shelters , the cathedral , police station , and post office , were demolished or damaged in an intensive German aerial assault on the industrtal Midlands city of Coventry . An official statement here said that the population of the City had gone through " an ordeal with great courage and heroism . " Simultaneously with the German attack on Coventry Royal Air Force bombers were carrying out an attack on Berlin which German dispatches admitted was the heaviest in force thus far . The British attacks were reported to have started fires in Berlin railway stations and to have found targets in 25 German airdromes . Coventry , with a population of about 190,000 , is one of England 's most important industrial cities and is located about 75 miles northwest of London . It has been one of the Germans ' regular targets in bombing raids on Britain . Extensive Damage A communique said " it is feared that extensive damage was done and many buildings destroyed , in-chiding the Cathedral . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , was " comparable with those of the largest night attack on London . " Fires were reported to have broken out at many points and " indiscriminate bombardment of the whole City followed . " The Germans said that 500 planes took part in the raid on Coventry . They said the City was a prime military objective because the Morris , Bristol , Rover , and Napier motor works are located there , as well as the General Electric . Antiaircraft Fire Intensive antiaircraft tire was i sported to have kept the invaders high and " hindered accurate bombing of industrial targets . " " ' Mel e will be many stories of heroism to be told when it is possible to collect them , " an official report of the raid stated . Bombs fell , leo , over a wide area of the Vest Midlands , outside Coventry . causing many casualties . A South Coast town at the same time had its longest air raid of the war last night . A large number of bombs were dropped , and 300 persons were removed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air raiders thrust twice at London today , returning in the early afternoon in the wake of a morning attack which was reported thrown back with losses . In the first raid , British fighte ? s dispersed a squadron of German warplanes which attacked over a South Coast town .                     