@@718150

CHICAGO , Aug. 14 ? The third session of the Democratic National Convention was tagged Ladies Day , but no one paid much attention to the ladies . Seven women members of Congress spoke , but their voices could scarcely be heard above the din on the floor . . Fewer than a third of the delegates attended , and there were only 1,500 spectators . Gov . Frank G. Clement of Tennessee , who presided , repeatedly banged his gavel for quiet and asked the delegates to be seated . But throughout the two-and-a-half-hour sessession most of them conferred in the aisles and in front of the stage . Nearly every speaker addressed herself to " you who are listening and watching on television . " But even as they // spoke , delegates on the floor were being interviewed by radio and television reporters at their seats , in the aisles and up front . In opening the program Governor Clement praised women for their elevating influence on politics and government . Later , as he tried to persuade and audience to sit down and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? These ladies are very important . " However , the Governor himself ducked to the rear of the platform at one point to speak into a microphone an interviewer held up to him . Other times he chatted with news and radio men seated at the rear of the stage , and read wire copy coming off their machines . One of the longest television interviews took place near the stage , while the women were trying to make themselves heard . It involved Senator John J. Sparkman of Alabama , who was joined by Gov . Marvin Griffin of Georgia , and Senator Olin D. Johnson of South Carolina . This interview lasted through the speeches of three women . Mrs. Katie Louchheim , director of women 's activities for the national committee , choked and coughed as she ' strained to raise her voice high enough over the hubbub to explain the women 's role in the party , " In this campaign , " she said , " you 're going to see more of us , hear more of us and get more help from us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We are here at this convention more than 650 strong , " she went on . " And this is just a token of the talent we will put at our party 's disposal in this campaign . " Women voters now outnumber men by about 2,500,000 , Mrs. Louchheim declared . " You can be sure that most of the doorbells rung this fall will be rung by women 's hands , " she observed . Momentarily Attentive As each of the seven Congresswomen was introduced the audience was momentarily attentive , distracted by the fanfare struck up by the band , the home state delegations that paraded and cheered and the pop of camera bulbs . Many , however , continued to read newspapers , converse or confer in groups with their backs to the stage . The speakers varied from the softly feminine Mrs. Iris F. Butch of Georgia to the efficient-looking Mrs. Edna F. Kblly of New York 's Tenth District , who has just been elected national committeewoman . Few had voices strong enough to surmount the competition . All seven , however , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their tempers . Mrs. Kelly , a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , criticized the Administration 's foreign policy . She said : " Indeed , without the support of the Democratic party in Congress , the President would have been left in a foreign-policy vacuum even greater than the vacuum in which his advisers are trying to operate . " " Where there should be a pos= itive , forthright policy , we have witnessed no policy , and when the Executive announces a policy one day , it is retracted the next day . " The six other speakers also attacked Republican policies in fields in which they were most concerned . Mrs. Lenor K. Sullivan of Missouri said the Administration 's " tight money " program had hurt the small borrower and helped banks . Mrs. Edith Green of Oregon charged the Republicans were more interested in the value of money than in the value of people . She discussed the Social Security policy . A " shocking disintegration of the Food and Drug Administration " jeopardizes the purity of foods and cosmetics , Mrs. Martha @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad straits economically that whole towns are affected by price drops , Mrs. Coya Knutson of Minnesota declared . Mrs. Gracie Pfost of Idaho charged that the Administration had given away natural resources . At one point she seized the attention of the delegates and roused them , to laughter . Holding up an Idaho potato , she said the profit from the sale of Federal - produced power from Hell 's Canyon would underwrite irrigation costs so that " people from crdwded cities could come out to God 's country where they could live on fine fertile farms and raise delicoius Idaho potatoes like this beauty . "                     