@@716050

The A.F.L. 's 17-member Executive Council will consider and almost certainly approve today a compromise plan for settling the federation 's recurrent internal jurisdiction fights . The ' details were worked out late yesterday . The council , also yesterday , accused Hat Corp . of America of " throwing its workers on the scrap heap " and . aunched a drive to save  --  the jobs of the company 's 1.600 employes in its Norwalk , Conn. , plants . They have been on strike since early July . 1953 ; in a move to block a company plan to move to Nevada , Mo . The plan to settle jurisdictional fights in the A.F.L. provides for arbitration of disputes , but does not require it . Final details of the proposal were worked out late yesterday by a special committee of the Executive Council created to devise a way of ending or at least minimizing the A.F.L. 's internal wars . The proposal is a compromise between doing nothing and setting up a sort of court with final and binding authority to which all disputes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new plan , according to members of the special committee : When a dispute arises that can not be settled locally , the presidents of the two international unions involved must get together to see if they can resolve it . If this fails . A.F.L President George Meany is to appoint a " disinterested " mediator to help bring about a settlement . He may be from inside or outside the A.F.L. , but may have no connection with either disputing union . The next step , if mediation is fruitless , is for Mr. Meany to propose arbitration of the squabble . If this is accepted by the disputants , then a three-man panel is to hear the case and issue a binding decision . One arbitrator would be named by each union involved and the third , a neutral , by agreement of the two unions . If they can not agree , then Mr. Meany is to name the third judge . If mediation fails and arbitration is refused , then the existing procedures would be brought into play . These call for ' referring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimately to the A.F.L. 's annual convention . The only sanction available for use by the A.F.L. against violators of a convention ruling are suspension or expulsion of the disobedient union . The present procedures are lengthy and tedious . Repeatedly in the past convention rulings have been ignored . That is why there is substantial support within the confederation for new machinery . But a number of unions , perhaps most , rebel against the idea of being forced to submit their dispute to arbitration . That 's the reason for the compromise . Arbitration is made a step in the proposed new procedures  --  but only a voluntary step . It is not forced on the warring Ainions . If the Executive Council adopts the proposed machinery today , and this is almost certain , then all 111 presidents in the A.F.L. would be summoned to a meeting this spring to go over the plan . If they approve , it would be submitted to the annual convention in the fall and take effect sometime after that  --  perhaps next January 1 . The council accused Hat Corp . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its Norwalk , Conn. , plant and said it is seeking " a vast supply of cheap labor in the South . " " A Personal and Active Interest " A.F.L. President Meany said the council has authorized him to " take a personal and active interest in the ( Hat Corp. ) negotiations and in support of the strikers . " " If the money is going to be needed , " Mr. Mean2. , said . " we 're going to get it for the hatters . " The council 's action followed an appearance before it by President Alex Rose of the Hatters . He said his union has launched a new drive to " inform consumers about the strike " ? in effect to urge a consumer boycott of the company , whose brands include Knox , Dobbs , Cavanagh and Dunlap.                     