@@708150

With Gov . Dewey vigorously pressing the attack on the New Deal and the fourth term , and with President Roosevelt forced upon the defensive all along the line , the Presidential election canvass is forging to the finish three weeks from next Tuesday . What the outcome will be is anybod ? ' s guess at this time . If the President should be reelected , it will be by a very narrow margin , according to the calculations of his own party managers . They think he will be fortunate to squeak thru . On the other hand , the Republican managers are persuaded that Dewey is going to win by an electoral college majority that may attain landslide proportions . Dewey Invades Midwest . All that has gone before in the campaign so far is skirmishing . Now it is a pitched battle . Gov . Dewey is about to open the big gun barrage in a series of speeches in the middle west . The President is awaiting the onslaught with his speech writers ready to pass the ammunition for the defense . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decades . The Democratic effort to organize dissident Republicans for Roosevelt has been a signal failure , while Democrats for Dewey clubs are flourishing in more than 25 states . Democratic leaders at national headquarters , harassed by the split In their party and by the apathy of regular Democratic county and precinct committeemen , make no secret of the feeling that the campaign has been going to their disadvantage , except in one particular . That Is the war in Europe . When It looked as If Germany would be definitely beaten before November they could see their chief argument for the retention of Mr. Roosevelt in office going glimmering . That argument was : Do n't swap horses while crossing a stream . A Question of Time . It was admitted by the Democratic managers that whenever the war in Europe should end the horse swapping contention would lose force , for people would reason that with the defeat of Hitler the stream would be virtually crossed , the conquest of Japan being merely a question of time . Now that the surrender of Germany before the election appears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run well into 1935 the Democratic leaders are emphasizing anew the horse swapping argument , tho they are treading gingerly on the thin ice of attempting to capitalize the prolongation of the war , particularly in view of the aspersions on Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau and even the President himself in this connection . The Germans have been fighting like demons , impeding the allied advance with tragic cost to our forces in casualties since about the time that Secretary Morgenthau 's plan to raze the Industries of Germany and reduce the conquered nation to an agricultural country was revealed . The President thought so well of this project that he summoned Morgenthau to the Quebec conference a few weeks ago to present it to Prime Minister Churchill . Danger of First Magnitude . Critics of the administration were quick to charge that the Morgenthau plan had roused the Germans to fight to the last ditch and frustrated any chance there might have been of their surrender in the near future . The inferential blame of the administration for causing the consequent needless sacrifice of the lives of American soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The President , therefore , lost no time in taking the problem of the treatment of postwar Germany away from Morgenthau and handing it to Secretary of State Hull , who opposed the Morgenthau plan , and to Foreign Economic Administrator Crowley to sit on till after the election . The fourth term as an issue has turned out to be about what the Continued on pare 18 , column 4 . DEWEY AND F.D.R. READY TO LAND FINAL PUNCHES // Democratic leaders expected . It has split the Democratic party more deeply than did the third term , alienating additional large numbers of ' conservatively minded Democrats who balk at giving consent to 16 years for any one man in the White House with the opportunity so afforded of molding the government to his will . But the fourth term has alienated no New Dealers , no communists and none of the radical workingmen enlisted in Sidney Hillman 's communist dominated CIO political action committee , on whom the Democratic leaders are depending for the reelection of Mr. Roosevelt . The fourth term dictatorship feared by the conservative Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the govern ! ment . HIIlthazi r . Problem . On the other hand the communist issue ' has turned out to be some , thing the Democratic . managers did not expect . The ascendency in the party of Sidney Hillman , who is not even a Democrat but head- of the communist controled American Labor party , was welcomed at first by Democratic National Chairman Hannegan and his associated campaign strategists . For without the American Labor party 's 400,000 votes Mr. Roosevelt could not hope to carry NeW York and would not have , carried it in 1940. - Moreover , Hillman , assessing the CIO , would bring- in - not less than 3 million dollar 's which would be in addition to any campaign funds the Democrats could raise . With political parties limited to 3 millions expenditure by the Hatch act , the Roosevelt- candidacy might thus have 6 milliona.at , ita command to Dewey 's 3 millions . ' ' What the ? Demecratie . - managers did not expect was that , the marriage of Earl Browder 's Communists and Hillman 's communist controled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the : Roosevelt midi-. dacy . AFL Is Divided . Before the campaign ' had progressed many weeks Hannegan was to discover that nothing had so roused the farmers and business men against the fourth term as the apprehension that it would be dominated by the Browder and Hillman left wingers in the interest of- extending Russian totalitarianism. to the United States . He also found that Hillman 's ascendency in - the Roosevelt regime had split the American Federation of Labor , driving the more conservatively minded workingmen to support of Dewey , and had even alienated ' some members of the CIO . The . reaction against the labor dictatorship in Washington , as the New Deal has come to be - looked upon - not only irt , . rural but urban communities , was ' sharpened by Mr. Roosevelt 's letter - td Boss Petrillo of the musician 's , Ilition to please comply with a War labor board decision . This letter contrasted to his dispatch ' of the army to take possession of Montgomery Ward 's and carry its president , Sewell Avery , bodily to the street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Roosevelt 's plea . For the boomerang the President himself as being blamed in the inner circle of the Democratic ' high command. ? It was the " clear everything with Sidney " instructions Mr. Roosevelt is reputed to have given Hannegan on the eve of - the Democratic national convention that dramatized Hillman 's annexation of the Democratic - party and stirred the indignation . and apprehensions Of the people. : Disavowal-a Dud . To the further discomfiture of the fourth term generals , the President 's mild disavowal of Communist support ' given under the lash-of the Dewey attack proved a dud . Unfortunately for the Democratic tactics Browder sounded off almost concurrently at a big Madison Square Garden meeting with fulsome Communist . ' praise of ? Roosevelt and the New - Deal , which : jot as much publicity as the Roosevelt disavowal of him. : Then , immediately afterward , IIillmart said that the President 's disavowal was net intended for his Politieal  --  action committee and that he was undeterred , in his devotion to Roosevelt .. What is deplored more than any : thing else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public impression that the President 's PhYsical condition is progressively , . deteriorating , as a result of which the qualifications of Sen. Truman to administer the Presidency ' have become a leading issue : The people are being reminded by this circumstance that candidate for Vice President is also TOtentinlly a candidate for Pr ? sident . ? As a result , Truman finds himself in the fierce light of public appraisal of his ability and of his identification with the malodorous Pendergast machine in ' Missouri . , Acceptance Speech . . Pubiic. , apprehensions regarding the health of the President date from ' Iris broadcast acceptance speech which impressed many listeners as lifeless - and labored in delivery . The published photograph of the President broadcasting his ' acceptance also shocked the public. , In ' this ' and subsequently Publishedpictures Mr. Roosevelt 's countenance has the drawn and : haggard appearance of a sick man . Viewed as particularly unfortunate by Democratic campaign directors Is the- disclosure that , Mr. Roose , velt is no longer able to appear ' in public in a standing posture. , Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sitting- down , as at the teamsters ' dinner and at the . forthcoming foreign , policy ' association dinner . Public appearances ' by Mr. Roosevelt at Madison Square garden in New York and in Chicago , winch were announced , were called ! off because of the fear of the effect of the spectacle of the President speaking from a sitting posture , tho the public explanation was that the change of plans was due to the secret service forbidding Mr. Roosevelt 's appearance at large meetings for reasons of security .                     