@@729450

About 000 persons were reported involved in disturbances at this Air Force base 50 miles northeast of San Francisco tonight . A barracks was set afire and at least 70 persons were arrested . 75 Policemen Called A Solano County sheriff 's ofnee spokesman said all those involved in the disturbance were Air Force personnel at this major embarkation point for Viet Nam . Seventy-five local , county and State policemen were called In quelling the distrubance . Police said the series of disturbances started Saturday in an Interracial squabble In a service club and continued sporadically thruout the weekend . Ono Fireman Dies Tonight 's disorder started at 0 o'clock among about 200 airl men and quickly spread . A military spokesman said one fireman died of smoke Inhalation while fighting the blaze at a ? bachelor officers ' barracks . Asked if it were a racial disorder , the spokesman said : " The blacks have been fighting the blacks , the whites fighting the whites and tile blacks and whites f i g h if n g each other . " Tile sheriff 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area around the blaze . " It 's an internal thing between the men themselves , " a sheriff 's aide said . " We really do n't know what created it . It just seemed to start up over nothing . " Col. John Blake , base commander , ordered Travis closed to all outsiders , including newsmen , t on i g h t . Most of the base 's 6,500 personnel were ordered confined to their areas , an Air Force spokesman said . Man Dies in Riot CHATTANOOGA , Tenn. , May 24 MPS  --  Gunfire - and firebombings shattered a stringent curfew tonight In the fourth consecutive night of violence in Chattanooga with a Negro man found shot to death in an area of " constant firing , " authorities said . The dead man , in his middle twenties , was found on a street in the predominantly black Alton Park area , about a mile from downtown . He had been shot in the lower abdomen . Mayor Robert K. Walker told a news conference that the death occurred in an area of " constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restored order quickly . State Safety Commissioner Claude Armour said an investigation was underway to determine how the man was killed . Armour said he had received " many reports of sniper fire , some false , some real . " He said , " It was much quieter tonight overall than it was last evening . " Gov . Winfield Dunn , at Walker 's request , sent the National Guard dnto Chattanooga during last night 's disturbance in which a Negro was wounded by gunfire .                     