@@717850

Dag Hammarskjold flew to Cairo today for high-level talks on his peace mission to the Middle East . The United Nations Secretary General conferred immediately with the Egyptian Foreign Minister , Dr. Mahmoud Fawzi . He is to see Premier Gamal Abdel ' Nasser tomorrow morning . Informants believed that the question of Egyptian commandos , who have been making raids deep in Israel , would be one of the first problems that Mr. Hammarskjold would bring up with the Egyptians . When he had finished his meeting with Dr. Fawzi , however , there was no word of , what had gone on in the Egyptian Foreign Office . They conferred for an hour and a half . Mr. Hammarskjold made a point of choosing Cairo as the capital in which to begin his search for ? ways to ease ArabIsrael tension and incidents that during the last week threatened to engulf the Middle East in war . The Secretary General and his party , including Maj. Gen. E. L. M. Burns of Canada , Chief of Staff of the United Nations Palestine Truce Supervisor Organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. No Statement Surrounded by a heavy Egyptian guard of policemen , soldiers and plainclothes men , Mr. Hammarskjold walked quickly to a waiting limousine for the drive to Cairo . His only words to reporters at the airport were : " No statement . " His aides said Mr. Hammarskjold had given strict orders that there was to be no comment at this time other than information on his itinerary . Even that , however , still was extremely flexible . He has not planned how long he will stay in Cairo , aides said . They added he expected to visit Tel Aviv next Monday . Where he would go in the interim was not known . Flying this morning from Beirut , Lebanon , where he had set up ? a kind of central headquarters ; ' Mr. Hammarskjold stopped off at ' the Israeli airport of Lydda near Tel Aviv . He went to Tel Aviv , where he Lad lunch with Joseph Tekoah , senior Israeli delegate to the Mixed Armistice Commissions . Informants said he had rejected , suggestion that top Israeli Foreign Office officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a protocol luncheon , according to members of his party . He returned quickly to Lydda , where he boarded a plane of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . His take-off was delayed for half an hour by a cold rain that swept over the whole Mediterranean area as far as Cairo . Mr. Hammarskjold was understood to have sent messages to Premier Nasser and to Israeli Premier David Ben-Gurion insisting that it would be impossible for him to , carry out his mission if they ; did not take every possible measure to end the fighting that has been going on during the last week . The Secretary General 's arrival in the area heralded the first full day in which there were no reported incidents between Egyptians and Israelis . There still was a feeling of tension and gloom , arising out of the series a Egyptian commando or suicide raids deep within Israel during the last four days , There was grave concern that the Israelis might retaliate if the raids continued . Egyptians have not confirmed or denied having sent the commandos into Israel . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they simply do not comment , it was said . Nevertheless the Egyptian press has given considerable publicity to the training of so- ' called Palestine commandos or fedayeen . During the last four days newspapers have carried full news agency accounts from Tel Aviv of commando raids under big headlines . Diplomats and other highly placed observers here believed that the commando raids had been carried out in retaliation for Israeli shelling of the market square and two hospitals in the Egyptian-held Gaza Strip , in which sixty civilians were reported killed and scores wounded . That in turn was considered an Israeli retaliation against a shooting incident last Wednesday in which Egyptian soldiers were said to have fired at an Israeli patrol as it advanced toward the demarcation line . ' Each side has accused the other of having started this chain of incidents in an effort to sabotage the Hammarskjold mission . There is no doubt that the events that followed make the Secretary General 's task supremely difficult . Mr. Hammarskjold was sent to the Middle East on the order of the Security Council to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Palestine armistice agreements , to try to find out what could be done to ease tension along the demarcation lines and to report back in a month . The mission was inspired by a resolution submitted to an urgent meeting of the Security Council by the United States . Following efforts by the Soviet Union to alter some of its wording , the resolution was unanimously adopted last Wednesday .                     