@@739950

A social reform of more than common interest and importance is under discussion in the British House of-Commons , in the form of a measure to enable the Government to provide Deferred Annuities or issue policies of Life Assurance for that large industrial class now dependent on minor , ill-managed offices , or so-called Friendly Societies . The justification of this seeming attempt to trench on the domain of private enterprise , is found ? first , in the fact that the Government has already , by authority of Parliament , recognized the principle of interference with the enterprise of ordinary assurance companies or loan associations , in exempting friendly societies from taxation , and in having established , through the post-office department , national savings banks in nearly every parish of the kingdom . A second justifying plea is found in the fact , that large and safe companies do not want the kind of business offered by the industrial poor ; but on the contrary , as a rule , favor the intervention of the Government . Still another argument is supplied by the startling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those minor assurance companies and friendly societies which employ agencies to tout up subscribers . Among the facts produced before Parliament as to the swindling of these petty associations are these : the number of small insurance companies projected within the last twenty years was 596 . The number founded was 276 . The number which ceased to exist was 259 . Others were in process of being wound up in chancery , and a few amalgamated with older companies . In the case of those that ceased to exist , none of the money deposited with the companies was returned to the subscribers . In the case of amalgamated companies , about half the amount subscribed was written off the books , in order to reduce the indebtedness of the association in that proportion . The Friendly Societies ' Act was first passed about thirty years ago . Since that time the number of failures have approached close to 9,000 , or about one-third of the whole number established ; and by these failures hundreds of thousands of industrious families have been robbed of the savings of y ears . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the policy holder , viz. : security from imposition . It will , doubtless , also offer , in time , the additional advantage of easy transfer , where the depositor changes his residence from one part of the kingdom to the other . But its first and great advantage will be security . In the matter of premiums , it will be unable to compete with private enterprise , inasmuch as the Government is precluded from making investments of money which will produce on an average more than 3t per cent . ; whereas , 5 and 6 per cent . is no unusual interest accruing to the investments of Ordinary assurance companies . A high premium , then , will necessarily be charged by Government , and we believe the Chancellor of the Exchequer is to limit the amount assured in each case to 8500 . By the aid of Government medical officers in the Poor-law Unions , and the voluntary cooperation of clergymen  --  both established and dissenting ? as well as by the ordinary agencies open to assurance societies , the Finance Minister promises Parliament that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of determining the health and the identity of members . On the question of health ho gives the opinion of eminent medical men connected with assurance , that there is no class of the community of the probable " value " of whose lives so easy , and yet so correct , an estimate can be formed , as those of the steady-going honest British laborer . The matter is almost reduced in the case of these to the simple question of sobriety . Looking at the picture as presented by Mr. GLADSTONE , the scheme seems to have in it most of the elements of success . And we only make the reflection here that it looks as if the British Parliament in these savings banks and assurance measures , were actually borrowing a leaf from the " paternal government " of His Majesty of France . PROGRESS OF ABOLITION. ? The election in Maryland yesterday has settled /he fate of Slavery in that State ? if it were nOt settled before . The Emancipationists ? or , . if you like it any better or hate it any wor.se @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Convention , for they have carried nearly every district in the State . The opposition was as feeble as it will be futile . Thousands of Democrats , thousands of ProSlavery. men voted for abolition , Only the old Copperhead aristocracy and their retainers voted for Slavery . The " Southern Empire " men , some years ago , used to talk of making Baltimore , NewOrleans and Charleston , the great entrepots of Southern commerce and trade of all kinds , including the slave trade ; but we guess they are now leaving the two former cities out of their count . THE CIIENANGO CANAL. ? The bill to aid the extension of the Chenango Canal has passed the State Assembly , and awaits the action of the Senate . We trust it will be passed . It is a measure of very great importance to all the interests to be affected by it . The original object of constructidg the Chenango Canal , was to connect with the public works of Pennsylvania , and thus obtain access to the coal-fields of that State . It was only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stopped just before reaching the point which was absolutely essential to its public utility . No time should be lost in remedying this mistake . The revenues ofthe canal would be very largely increased , and the whole of the southern and western portions of this State would find easy and cheap access to the coal of Pennsylvania . WASTE OF MONEY AND PAPER. ? We learn by a dispatch from Washington that a new edition of Gen. GEORGE B. MCCLELLAN 'S Military Memoirs is to be published by Government , including all the dispatches from him which he omitted in his report . The omitted dispatches , lying on Secretary STANTON 'S table , we are told , " make a pile a foot and a half high . " If we knew the length and breadth as well as the height of this pile , we might express a more intelligent opinion as to the advisability of printing it in the present condition of the finances . But , as it is said that the publication is to be made for the " sake of history , " we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is now the age of action . WONDERS O1 Ti1E FAIR . ? Seventy-three thousand dollars were taken in yesterday for tickets to the Great Fair ; between four and five thousand dollars were taken in at the restaurant ; and though it was difficult on account of the crowd , to purchase or sell goods , more than enough was taken in from sales to carry up the gross receipts of the day to one hundred thousand dollars . So much for Wednesday . ? Though the buildings were crowded on Monday and jammed on Tuesday , the events and receipts of yesterday show that the utmost possibilities of human pressure were by no means realized on either of the previous days . It has been said that Americans are remarkable for their power of adapting themselves to circumstances ; but no such crushing proof of the fact has ever been furnished as at the Great Fair . To-day will doubtless give further and as yet unparalleled evidence of the same fact . We have not only the longest rivers and the biggest forests in this country -- we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ourselves over more ground than any other people  --  but we can wedge ourselves in tighter than all creation . There was no soch wedging at the Crystal Palace in London . If there had been , few of Her Majesty 's loyergsubjects would have been left to tell the tale . We would suggest to the visitors , however , that for the present the ) ' glance at the great show as quickly as posoible , and get out as soon as they think they has ' e got their money 's worth . Everybody will , of : course , visit the fair at least twice , and in , a few days there will be better opportunity to . examine things intelligently -- perhaps.                     