@@694450

Highway officials and traffic safety authorities yesterday lined up solidly behind the plan to install electric signal lights on the right side of automobile roads at railroad grade crossings rather than in the center of the pavement when the Illinois commerce commission reopened its hearings on the question . At the Same time Timothy J. Urowe , president of the sanitary district board , announced that work is to start immediately on the installation of 600 ornamental , 1,000 candle power flood lights along McCormick boulevard from Devon avenue north to Railroad avenue in Evanston . Fits In with County Plan . This McCormick boulevard improvement , Mr. Crowe pointed out , is in line with the general lighting plan for all Cook county trunk highways , re cently presented to the county board by Commissioner Frank J. Wilson , and will make the 40 , foot , high speed pavement in McCormick boulevard one of the feature roads of America . The installation contract , awarded to the U. S. A. company , includes the building of 16 foot light posts , the installation of curbing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the widening of all crossroad intersections . The entire improvement will cost 6727,000 . IL E. Surman , engineer of design of the Illinois highway department ; Frank T. Sheets , chief state highway engineer ; representatives of the National Safety COuncll , and B. D. Barker , chief engineer of the Cook county highway department , told the Illinois commerce commissioners that traffic safety and modern highway practices demand that flash and wig-wag warning lights be placed at the- right of state pavements . Urges Warnings on Right Side . " Every agency , from the United States bureau of public roads to the automobile dealer , is educating the car owner to watch the right side of the road for warning signs and driving Instructions , " said Mr. Surman . " Where warning lights are set on a concrete monument in the center of the highway they not only require expensive widening of the pavement but also serve to transfer the danger from the railroad crossing to the highway itself . In the Chicago metropolitan area it is the practice to widen the pavement at grade crossings so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Center monuments would ! block traffic rather than expedite its movernen t . " Lefty Lewis Murder Jury Still Lacks Two Members CRIMINAL COURT . or Burkes , larceny , sentenced to 1 year In the Bridewell ; Edward Gains , obtaining money by false pretenses , sentenced to 1 year in the Bridewell by Judge Emanuel Eller . The jury which is to determine the fate of Lefty Lewis , labor agent , who is charged with the murder of Max Braverman , junk dealer , was still shy two men when Judge Stanley ' Chu --  kowskl adjourned court last evening . Eight , jurors have been sworn and two tentatively agreed on by both sides . Not one man measured up to the qualifications of both sides during an entire day of work .                     