@@724750

What 's ahead ... Bolivia stands on legs of tin . And they have grown wobbly . About 60 percent of Bolivia 's foreign earnings stem from ? tin mines . But they were nationalized in 1962 . And production has plummeted ever since . Efforts to stop the downward pitch through reforms have withered , mostly because of union resistance to change . Labor is leftist controlled . A beefing-up operation underwritten by the United States and West Germany has been abandoned . And , with production down and costs rising , the mines are losing $50,000 a month . The problem could be an Achilles ' heel for any Bolivian government in the months ahead . The tense Rhodesian situation is pounding toward a climax . If Prime Minister Ian Smith 's white-supremacy government wins the May 7 election , as expected , it will push ahead to independence from Britain either by negotiation or seizure . But Britain vows not to grant Rhodesia independence unless its white minority government permits majority rule . Rhodesia , therefore , may declare independence unilaterally . This will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to put down the Rhodesian " rebellion . " South Africa and Portugal would side with Rhodesia . And the stakes would be high . If Rhodesia is forced by world intervention to bow to majority rule , the whole fortress of white control in southern Africa would be exposed . But if Rhodesia is able ' to carry off its defiance , white rule will pic1 ( up new strength . Trends .. . Central America is drawing into a tighter economic and political knot . Already a fledgling economic customs union blankets the narrow neck of nations that links North and South America . And when Costa Rica signed the charter for the prganization of Central American States in early April , the region took on a political arm . A regional labor council and a centralized tourist promotion unit went into business . The five-nation region , embracing some of the smallest states in Latin America , is expected soon to drop rissport and visa requirements for travel regionwide . Next , the nations hope to link up educationally through teacher exchanges and mutual help in classroom construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regional arrangement . But there is talk that it will soon join . How and why ... West Germans feel caught in a nutcracker on the reunification of their country . The East German regime , its confidence shored by economic advance and widened foreign trade , is hiking the price of future cooperation with Bonn . Communist-bloc nations , led by the Soviet Union , will attempt , in a major blast on May 8 , to link the Bonn government with the Naziism of the past . France and the Soviet Union have just agreed that Germany 's present frontiers are final . They also want to keep West Germany atom free . President de Gaulle of France is trying to cut the United States , Bonn 's major security arm , out of a future German settlement . He wants to " Europeanize " the problem . And finally , the Bonn government itself is inhibited because the mood of the West German people is uncertain . Besides , the government faces a national election in September . That other " war " in Asia  --  between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long time . That 's what most Far Eastern observers think . Indonesia 's President Sukarno refused to meet Malaysia 's Tunku Abdul Rahman in Tokyo this month . That surprised nobody . Few thought anything tangible would happen even if the two did meet . Right at the brink of projected talks Indonesia launched its sharpest attack in months against British forces in Malaysian Borneo ? hardly a goodwill gesture . The Tunku 's stance is to appear ready to meet anytime , anywhere  --  but meanwhile keep the military guard up . Most feel that with troubles aplenty at home , President Sukarno needs a dramatic outside issue to rally his people . Malaysia makes a handy one .                     