@@725050

Controller Abraham D. Beame won unqualified support in his race for Mayor yesterday from Herman Badillo , Reform Democratic candidate for Bronx Borough President . The endorsement stemmed from Mr. Beame 's accfctance a week ago of a demand by Mr. Badillo that he take steps to bring about the direct election of Democratic district leaders in the Bronx . Mr. Badillo narrowly defeated the candidate backed by the *Bronx , Democratic leader , Charles A. Buckley , in the September primary . He threatened to run independently of the Buckley-backed Beame ticket in the November election unless Mr , Beame met the demand . Full Term Pledged Among the other political developments yesterday were these : gRepresentative John V. Lindsay , the Republican-Liberal candidate opposing Mr. Beame , pledged to serve a full four-year term if elected . In a TV interview , he also expressed the hope that his record would be good enough to enable him to be reelected in 1969. cDr . Timothy W. Costello , running on the Lindsay ticket for City Council President , charged in a TV interview that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ' not running in good faith " ' because he had his eye on the governorship . Mr. Costello said Mr. O'Connor had made a deal with Mr. Buckley and the Brooklyn leader , Stanley Steingut , to run with Mr. Beanie in return for the leaders support for the gubernatorial nomination next year . Mr. O'Connor denied the charges as irresponsible , saying he had said repeatedly he had made no deals with anyone . Asked if he would serve the full four-year term if elected , Mr. O'Connor said : " I 'm running for President of the City Council . I 'm not concerned with what may happen a year from low . I have served the people of my county well for 15 years and I will continue to serve wherever they may call me . " William F. Buckley Jr. , Conservative candidate for Mayor , said in a WABC-TV program that " the lunatic pronouncements of Robert Welch have , in my judgment , by this time made a defense of the John Birch Society impossible . " He said many decent citizens were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irresponsible . " Mr. Beanie also won support yesterday from State Controller Arthur Levitt , who lost in the 1961 mayoral primary to Mayor Wagner . Mr. Badillo 's pledge of support , contained in a state . ment made available by aides , was viewed as a particularly big boon for the Beame ticket . Had Mr. Wino run an independent campaign , the Democratic split in the Bronx would have deepened and , in the view of political observers , Mr. Beams might have lost sizable blocs of votes not only in the Bronx but also in other boroughs . Mr. Badillo , who was born in Puerto Rico , showed his votepulling ability in the primary when he survived- the disaster that befell the leader of his ticket , City Council President Paul Screvane . Mr. Badillo won the Borough President nomination by a handful of votes over State Senator Ivan Warner , who was running on the Beame ticket . Mr. Badillo , throughout the primary campaign , assailed the rule of former Representative Buckley in the Bronx , the only borough that does not have direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 3,000 members of the county committee , which Is controlled by Mr. Buckley . Right after the primary , as Mr. Beanie set out to rally the support of Democrats who had run on other slates , Mr. Badillo rocked the Beame camp by demanding immediate action to upset the system that helped Mr. Buckley solidify his party power . Mr. Beame responded by requesting a meeting of the Bronx executive committee to change the rules . The committee met but abruptly turned down the idea of a rules change . Mr. Beanie pledged to carry the issue to the State Legislature . Mr. Badillo applauded the Beanie stand and said it was a clear indication by the Beame ticket " of their recognition that changes must be brought about in the Democratic party in the Bronx and of their willingness to assume responsibility for taking action to bring these , necessary changes about . " Mr. Badillo attacked Mr. Lindsay and the RepublicanLiberal candidate for Bronx Borough President , Joseph F. Periconi , for not " showing any evidence of going as far as Mr. Beame by calling upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of the executive committee to seek direct election of district leaders . A Lindsay aide said Mr. Lindsay had repeatedly called for such direct elections . Representative Fino suggested that Mr. Badillo " mind his own business . " He said that he had come out for direct elections in 1961 but that the recent primary had convinced him that direct elections in the Bronx would not help democratize his party . This was so , he said , because there were 10 times as many enrolled Republicans in the north Bronx as in the south . Directly elected district leaders , he said , would therefore represent grossly unequal groups and this would violate the spirit of the Supreme Court 's one-man , one-vote edict . Mr. Buckley , the Conservative candidate , said in his TV interview that he had known Mr. Lindsay at Yale and , asked what their relationship had been , replied : " Oh , we did a little witchhunting together one time . " Pressed for details , he said there had been " a bunch of fellow travelers in the law school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keep us from joining NATO on the grounds that this was a Fascist imperialist plot . " " And John Lindsay during those days , " Mr. Buckley added with a smile , " was rather more refreshingly concerned about that kind of thing . "                     