@@726950

An unusual consensus is developing in support of binding arbitration as the best insurance against more civil service strikes of the kind that covered New York City with garbage early this month . There are enormous differences in the approaches of those proposing this method of impartial determination and in the circumstances under which they would apply it . But the recognition that the community must not be coerced into unreasonable settlements through the cut-off of a vital service provides a welcome point of accord for legislators in search of more dependable protection against public strikes . The latest recruits to the notion that arbitration offers a road to fair treatment for the public and public workers include Theodore W. Kheel , special adviser to Assembly Speaker Travia ; Senator Jacob K. Javits and an independent review commission set up to consider revision of the no-strike clause in the constitution of the International Association of Fire Fighters , the union representing most of the nation 's firemen . Mayor Lindsay and George Meany already have indicated receptivity to greater use of arbitration as a public strike preventive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bible for the Democrats in the Legislature in their efforts to torpedo the Taylor Law , employs some dubious logic before arriving at arbitration as a tightly circumscribed  --  almost unattainable  --  terminal in disputes that would cripple the community . Much as we respect Mr. Kheel 's oft-demonstrated talents as mediator and fact-finder , we fear that his basic proposal to stop illegal strikes by legalizing them would make present difficulties in this field infinitely worse  --  not only for New York City but for the Federal Government and all other governmental employers . As Mr. Kheel himself acknowledges , " the strike fever is contagious . " He makes no effort to explain why unionized Federal employes give absolute adherence to the doctrine that there is no right to strike against the Government  --  a principle as old as government  --  even though their machinery for joint negotiation on wages and other matters is vastly less comprehensive than that available to public employes in this city and state . His own proposal would exempt from strike authorization state employes , including stenographers and clerks , whose wages are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service , which is much closer to the needs of the people , Mr. Kheel would unlock a strike door he promptly professes to close by suggesting that the Governor be empowered to get an eighty-day emergency injunction ' similar to that under the Taft-Hartley Act . If peace did not come in that period , the Legislature would be asked to force arbitration on a case-by-case basis . Congressional experience with such improvised legislation indicates the shortcomings of that approach . We agree with Mr. Kheel that under any system the skill and sincerity of the negotiators on both sides will determine how well the system works , but we share Senator Javits 's belief that making arbitration the last step in the present no-strike system offers much greater assurance of stability and two-way equity than a program that starts with the premise that " strikes by public workers that jeopardize the public welfare are intolerable " and then indicates it is all right to have them .                     