@@677150

Secretary WILSON possibly rather daked than instructed most of ? us by dealing with the crops as a total in figures nearly baffling comprehension . There is another way of translating these amazing figures of natural wealth . Instead of throwing billions . familiarly about , take some large manufacturing interest and compare it with the humblest agricultural industry . No one is more adept in such comparisons than Mr. STICKNET , President of the railway sometimes ironically called the Pirate by way of endearment . Mr. STICKNEY describes his visit , for example , to one of the largest iron ore mines in Minnesota . Seven entire railway trains ran into one mine and were loaded simultaneously by seven steam shovels , each making a ? dip every half minute , and at every ' dip loading three tons . ' There are many such ore mines , and any one of them makes any farm seem insignificant . Yet all the mines of Minnesota yield an annual product less valuable than the egg crop of Iowa . And the.men employed in those mines nunt bered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reckoning all mines of every sort in the United States , they employ only 600,000 men , . while ' there are 10,400,000 employed in agriculture . ' Iowa farms alone yield larger annual values than all the coal , iron , copper , silver , and gold mines in the United States . Sundry homely but useful considerations are suggested by these facts . The massing of unconsidered trifles is a financial factor which ' has shown many bankers and traders the way to fortune . But we are turning the matter the other way about , and analyzing billions into its constituent parts . These bi.illons of real wealth which Secretary ' WILSON plays with while Wall Street gapes are doing more good than those other billions of paper wealth which millionaires play with . Aggregations of wealth are dangerous to the community and elusive to their possessor . It is the diffusion of wealth which yields most blessing to the Nation . Prosperous millions are a better source of National welfare than aggregation of wealth to any extent in the hands of the few . Russia . for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Czar 's possessions rivaling ROCKEFELLER 'S . But what a contrast there is between the Russian proletariat and the American proletariat ? if there is such a thing . But the submerged millions are the true basis of National wealth , just as truly as a house can not substitute any elegance for soundness of foundations . Remark also how the mine is exhausted by its operation , how manufacturing plants deteriorate by use . how men age and die , and compare this with the constant increase of value of land by good farming . Our farmers are not poorer by the billions they take from the earth . On the contrary . their farms are worth I more with each billion added to the an- , nual harvest . and there are millions of good acres yet to feel the plow for the first time , and millions of worthless acres to be made fruitful by irrigation and " dry " farming . If Americans need to he told what to he thankful for this year , they are beyond instruction 