@@724350

A citywide police telephone number for emergency calls was put into operation yesterday by Mayor Wagner . The new number ? 440-1231 ? is expected to speed police response to emergency calls from the public . When a person dials the new number from a telephone in any of the five boroughs , the call activates new switching equip ' ment at the telephone company 's central offices . The equipment , through a series of relays , automatically routes the call directly to the police communications bureau in the borough involved . Shortly before 10 A.M. yesterday , Mayor Wagner inaugurated the new system by placing two calls , spaced six minutes apart , to the Manhattan communications bureau from // the porch of Gracie Mansion . Seated on a couch , the Mayor dialed 440-1234 on an olivegreen telephone and then , holding - the receiver close to his ear , waited for about 10 seconds . From a speaker attached to the telephone came the voice of Patrolman James J. Smith , an operator on the emergency board at Manhattan headquarters . " Operator , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Just testing and checking to see if the new number is working . " Mr. Wagner then asked , " How are things down there ? " and the patrolman replied , " Just fine , sir . " The Mayor then handed the receiver to Acting Police Commissioner John F. Walsh , who identified himself , and announced that " the new emergency police number , 440-1234 , is now in effect . " He handed the receiver to Clifton W. Phalen , president of the New York Telephone Cornpany , who expressed hope that the number would enable city residents to get ' , faster police and ambulance service . The Mayor 's second call was received by another . operator , Patrolman James K. Whaley , who assured the Mayor that the system was working without difficulty and that , the Mayor was coming through loud and clear . Again Mr. Walsh and Mr. Phalen spoke briefly . The new system results from almost a year of work by the . New York Telephone Company and the communications bureau ' of the Police Department . It involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telephone offices and special switching centers in the five boroughs . The new number is intended only for emergencies . Routine business calls should be placed on telephones designoted for police administration . In emergency cases , the in'formation given by the caller is relayed to the radio room and the nearest patrol car or ambulance 's sent to the scene . Persons needing police help may also dial " 0 " for the telephone operator , who will relay the call to the police . However , this procedure is likely to take longer . The Police Depariment has seven emergency call boards in the city  --  Manhattan South and North , Brooklyn South and North , and one each in the Bronx , Queens and Staten . Island . Mr. Walsh said yesterday that new police operators had been added in each of the boroughs so that the emergency calls could be answered in 50 seconds . If the call was not answered in that time , he said a red light would flash over the board indicating that the call should be given priority . Calls to the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay telephones and there will be no message charge on private phones . The new number will be printed on the cover of the new telephone directories , and telephone customers in the city will have the number listed on their monthly bills . Mr. Phalen said the new system for the number cost the telephone company about $250 , - 000 . Police headquarters in Manhattan reported that from 9:30 A.M. to midnight yesterday , 716 emergency calls came in on the new number and .606 calls on the , old number . The total number of calls , the police said , was about average for a weekday . In addition , the police reported that there were a number of calls on the new number where the caller , said , " Oh , it works , " and hung up .                     