@@698950

Insistence by the House on full publicity for all loans made hereafter by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation again deadlocked the $2,122,000,000 unemployment relief bill today , after the Senate and House conferees had reached an agreement on all its other features . The Senate refused to accede to the House 's demand and asked for a further conference . After the House conferees had reported that they could not reach an agreement on publicity , the Democratic majority , by a vote of 172 to 150 , reaffirmed its support of Speaker Garner , who favors complete publicity . Thus the relief question again resolved itself into a struggle between the Speaker and the administration . Mr. Garner replied to unofficial reIports that President Hoover would veto the bill for the second time if 1 the publicity feature was written into it by overriding Majority Leader Rainey and insisting on an immediate House vote instead of a test tomorrow , as Mr. Rainey had planned . Connally and Robinson Clash . The Senate entered the deadlock by a viva voce vote , after the Republicans had silently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic leader , and Senator Connally , in which the latter upheld the position of his fellow-Texan , Speaker Garner , and charged the administration with pursuing " backstairs " methods of directing legislation . The belief was held in Senatorial circles that some publicity for Reconstruction Corporation loans will be included in the bill  --  not necessarily a complete victory for the House , but a compromise . The Senate bill provides for monthly reports on all loans made for relief purposes . The House bill provides that all loans made hereafter by the corporation become matters of public record . The Senate conferees offered today to agree to publicity for all except loans to banks , but the House conferees rejected the proposal . Despite this hitch , Senate and House leaders tonight clung to the hope of an adjournment by tomorrow night , or at least by Saturday night . No agreement could be reached on the relief bill , however , before late tomorrow afternoon . The House must agree to another conference after it meets at noon tomorrow , and then appoint new conferees . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as both House and Senate leaders had expected , the ten conferees today wrestled with the relief bill from 9:30 A. M. to 1 P. M. , recessed until 2 o'clock for luncheon and then argued until 3 o'clock . The House conferees accepted the Senate 's Glass amendment authorizing loans by Federal Reserve Banks to private industry in emergencies where industries can not obtain loans from commercial banks despite the fact that they offer adequate security . The House accepted the Senate amendment , inserted at the President 's request , eliminating the governor of the Federal Reserve ' Board and the chairman of the Federal Farm Loan Board as ex officio members of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation board . House conferees accepted the Senate amendment barring loans by the corporation to any company whose officers have been on the board of the corporation during the previous twelve months . The Senate conferees accepted a House amendment authorizing but not appropriating for about $7,000 , - 000 worth of army and navy airport construction . " The Senate conferees were willing to agree to publicity on everything except loans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sen ' ate conferees . " However , we felt that , the Senate already having appointed the Couzens committee to inquire into bank loans , that question ' would be fully covered and enough daylight turned on bank loans to give them full publicity . We felt that false rumors already spread quickly enough about banks without doing anything to hurt them more . " Garner Insists on Test . When the House conferees , headed by Majority Leader Rainey , reported their disagreement on the publicity feature , Mr. Rainey stated that no vote could be taken in the House today regarding the instruction of conferees . But half an hour later Speaker Garner determined to bring in the conference report immediately . Mr. Rainey introduced the report at 3:55 P. M .. after Senators Robinson , Reed , Wagner , Barbour and the vote . Minority Leader Snell protested this procedure . " How can you do this ? " he shouted . " The report has not been printed ; members have not seen it . Besides , all conference reports must lie over for one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is a privileged report , " snapped Speaker Garner . " How is it privileged ? " demanded Mr. Snell . " The parliamentarian informed me that it is privileged . " The Speaker hammered his gavel and instructed the clerk to read the report . Representative Rainey put two motions , the first to disagree with the Senate bill and the second to insist on the House amendment . There was no debate . The first amendment was carried viva voce ; the second on a roll-call as demanded by the Republicans . On the latter vote independent Republicans joined with the Democrats . Within two minutes after the vote had been tabulated Speaker Garner adjourned the House . Senate Responds Quickly . The disagreement was placed before the Senate an hour later on a motion by Senator Robinson insisting that the Senate 's conferees maintain its position . " I think that the President or the Senate , or both , would place themselves in a very questionable position if they should argue that the relief bill will be defeated if publicity is given to loans by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' money to be loaned by the corporation does not belong to the Senate or to the President , but to the . people of the United States , and the country ought to have information as to what those loans are for and to whom they go . " The people are just about gorged already with the dishing out of money from the Treasury to certain favored interests . " Senator Robinson replied that ha had no objection to " the fullest possible publicity " for loans under the relief act , and referred to the Couzens committee as a source of information on other loans . " What I am asking , " Senator Robinson insisted , " is that we avoid a situation such as caused the other relief bill to be vetoed . " Asked by Senator Connally if he knew the President would veto a bill containing the provision for full publicity for finance corporation loans , Senator Robinson replied : " I have no information that the President will veto the bill if it contains the House amendment , but I want to avoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Word . Senator Connally referre to the apparent " obstinacy " of fife Senate in insisting on having its way . Senator Glass objected " to being termed obstinate . " " The Senate is no more obstinate than the House . " ha said . " My real objection , " continued Senator Connally , " is to this passing of legislation only after it has been approved in advance by the White House . This backstairs arrangement by which the President instructs and threatens the Congress with what he can do is not at all in harmony with tradition . If he objects to legislation , he can continue to exercise his constitutional right ana veto it . " Senator Wagner thought an agreement " will be reached shortly , " and when Senator asked if he thought there would be some provision for loan publicity , Senator Wagner said : " Personally , I think so . " Senator Long criticized the House , the Senate and the President alike for intruding a controversial subject in the relief bill . Referring to President Hoover , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this country to permit the bullheadedness of any one man to dictate this legislation . " He challenged the Senate to pass a resolution by Senator Norris providing for publicity for all act 's of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and thus " to make the issue with the President and let him veto it . "                     