@@684850

There is certainly not the least reason why women should not be members of the party committees , now that they are eligible in so many States not only to the right of suffrage but to public office , including Membership in Congress . Still , the women " from fourteen States of the Middle West " who have demanded that the Republican National Committee be doubled in number , and that each State be represented on it by one man and one woman , are not acting either in the interest of sex equality or in the interest of their own sex . It has been understood that the women voters would be women , citizens , and , in the majority of cases , partisans . This proposal is that they should be treated not as voters , citi , zens , or partisans , but as women ; that a line of demarkation should be drawn between the sexes . Nothing worse could happen to the ea of women . As for sex equality , it would be obliterated so far as the effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be treated as men are . Now some of them insist on being treated solely as women . That is not equality . Furthermore , it would place them at a distinct disadvantage . There is a practical side to the question , so practical as to suggest that women who ignore it must be very unskilled in politics and not " knowledgable " in that science . The State delegations at the National Conventions elect their , National Committeemen . In doing so they do not elect men because they are G. A. R. men , American Legionaries , business men , workingmen , or members of any other class requiring special consideration or thought to require it . Each delegation picks out the person whom it believes to be best acqiiainted with the State and most skilled in its politics  --  likeliest , in other words , to get the vote out and see it cast right , and best fitted to maintain the right relations with the leaders in the other States . . That is practical politics . Now it is proposed to hitch up with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the interests he represents but according to his proved skill , a colleague who is chosen for no such ? eason , but solely on account of her sex . If it were a matter of drafting a platform it would be a different matter . But this is a thing having nothing to do with principles , having to do solely with the practical matter of organization and getting the vote out . In this matter an expert is certain , in the nature of things , to have the advantage over an amateur . We hardly suppose that even the most extreme suffragists will hold that , in the majority of the forty-eight States , the women selected for the National Committee will be other than amateurs , and that for the public at large there will be only one National Committeeman , the male member . This will not bo necessarily because the woman member is inferior to him intellectually , but simply because she is inferior to him in experience in those matters which go to make up a successful National Committeeman . Let women enter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are qualified . Let any State delegation which sees a competent and experienced politician among its women voters , one better fitted for the place than some man who might be proposed against her , elect her to the place . But it will be a severe blow to the cause of women if every State is arbitrarily forced to put a woman on the National Committee whether she is fit or not , solely because her name is Jane instead of John .                     