@@716650

A giant statue honoring the Marine Corps was dedicated today with Vice President Richard M. Nixon saluting it as " a symbol of the hopes and dreams of all Americans . " The seventy-five-foot bronze memorial , in Arlington , Va. , ? close by the Arlington National Cemetery , depicts the historic flag raising on Iwo Island during World War II . It was adapted by the sculptor , Felix de Weldon , from the well known Associated Press photograpirshown in inset . The picture was made by Joe Rosenthal . President Eisenhower attended the ceremony for a few minutes and listened to Gen. Lemuel Shepherd Jr. , Marine Corps , Commandant , present the statue to the American . people . The three survivors of the dra matic episode sat among 5,000 hushed spectators as the flag was , raised above the monument overlooking the Potomac River and the national capital . They arej Cpl . ? Ira H. Hayes of Bapchule , Ariz. ; Cpl . Rene A. Gagnon of Hooksett , N. H. , and Pharmacist 's , man attached to the Marines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were killed in the Iwo fighting , also attended ) along with Mr. Rosenthal , Mr. de Weldon and scores of the nation 's leaders . The three who ' died were Cpl . Franklin R. Sousley of Ewing , 1 Ky. ; Cpl . Harlon H. Block of Weslaco , Tex. , and , Sgt. Michael Strank of Conemaugh , ' Pa , Mr. , Nixon , in his dedicatory address , said the statue memorialized not only the individuals , the battle and the Marine Corps but that " it represents something more . " The monument , he said , will stand as a testimonial to the freedom-loving philosophy of Americans who he said get into foreign battles not because " we want land or peoples or concessions but because all we want Is peace and freedom . " A ' Message , to the Future ' President Eisenhower , who sat on the windswept platform without an overcoat , said nothing but passed along his " best wishes " to Robert B. Anderson , Deputy Secretary of Defense , who told the President that the gathering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a busy day . In presenting the monument , whose $850,000 cost was paid by Marines , General Shepherd said , it was " not just a monument to the departed past . It is a graphic message to the future . " " May it stand for ages yet to come as a symbol of American courage and determination , of indestructible faith , and of unity of purpose , " he said . " For with that spirit , however severe may be the trials which lie ahead , our Nation will endure and the cause of human freedom will triumph . " The statue of the six men who raised the flag on Mount Suribachi on Iwo Island was began by the Austrian-born sculptor while serving in the Navy in 1945 . General Shepherd hailed the flag-raising scene as " one of many great moments in American history , " and he said : " In this sense the five Marines and the sailor depicted are , in themselves , only a symbol . These men do not represent just the Marine Corps  --  nor is this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever view this memorial  --  it will speak of the courage , the spirit and the greatness of the American people ? the people from whom these ' men and their ageless comrades came . " Mr. Anderson said the memorial " epitomizes all the devotion and fierce determination of those who participated in that bloody battle * * for a remote and dusty little island in the far reaches of the western Pacific . " Changes Made by Sculptor In an interview last Saturday , Mr. ' de WeldOnx said he had taken some artistic liberties with the original photograph . The chief liberty was to move the figures closer to each other to make the statue more compact . Mr. de Weldon explained that because of the height of each figure , he had to make other changes to prevent distortion for the viewer on the ground . He accomplished this by elevating arms and enlarging hands and helmets.                     