@@721850

Springfield , Ill. , May .24-On the second attempt , Mayor Daley 's bill to authorize erection of a multi-story motel at O'Hare International airport , Chicago , was passed by the House today , 93 to 75 . Eight Chicago Republicans supported the bill , a major item in Mayor Daley 's legislative program . ' The result was accepted by other Republicans who last Thursday blocked passage of the bill and yelled protests when they were not permitted to Democratic leaders kept the bill alive over the week-end by not announcing the vote against it . Pollack Bars Filibuster Threats of a filibuster were abandoned when Minority Leader William E. Pollack R. , Chicago told his followers that their anger should not prevent consideration of essential legislation . For the second roll call , Democrats brought in full strength . Rep. Dave Glenn ( D. , Greenup , who recently suffered a heart attack , walked slowly into the House chamber in time for the roll call . Speaker Paul Powell D. , Vienna in a speech from the floor contended that an airport motel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than state owned lodges- at state parks . He cited the big lodge built by the Stratton Republican administration at Illini Beach State park , 47 miles north of the Chicago Loop . Expect Hilton Lease Most legislators expect the Hilton Hotels corporation to build an O'Hare luxury motel under a 40 year lease if the bill also passes the Republican Senate , which showed no disposition to be in a hurry about it . All suburban House Republicans voted against , the bill , chiefly on the ground that it would furnish competition with private motels nearby . Rep. Richard A. Napolitano ? D. , Chicago said that as a result of the airport development property values in the area have increased as much as 2,000 per cent . Representatives Peter J. Miller and Walter Babe , Chicago Republicans who con , sistently vote with Democrats on major issues , were joined by Republicans Hector A. Brouillet , Thomas . J. Curran , J. Horace Gardner , Elwood Graham , Louis Janczak and Elroy C. Sandquist in voting for the bill . HOTELS PROTEST The Chicago Association of Airport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Illinois House to allow Chicago to lease a proposed motel at O'Hare International airport . Richard C. Gee , association president , said there already are more than twice as many hotel and motel rooms within eight miles of O'Hare as near any other airport in the world . He said there are 4,548 motel and hotel rooms , already open and currently under construction , in 53 motels and hotels in the area ..                     