@@700250

Motor companies doing more than 90% of all the business in the Industry will be working on their 1934 programs in December . Those that will not get under way are making extensive changes that require more time for the preparatory work , and although they will have new models at the national automobile shows it will be well into the new year before some of them get into production . Most of the manufacturers probably will be slow in attaining desired volume but substantial operations by the Ford Motor Co. veil be an important factor in the December output . Signs of renewed activity at the big plant multiply . Suppliers are getting shipping schedules which indicate that production of 1,000 cars a day will be started during the coming week and that 2,000 cars a day are planned for December . In recent years Ford has been slow in getting into volume production , a fact which provided the industry with an alibi  --  doubtless in some measure warranted  --  for lagging business . This year Ford heads the parade in the volume field . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some quarters that Ford may prove a more serious contender for business in the low priced field next year . The Ford V-8 is becoming more firmly established In the market . During the first quarter this year Ford V-8 passenger ear registrations in the ' United States totaled 39,553 or 17.3% of the total . Ford registrations in the second quarter jumped to 92,381 or 20 3 , ; of the total , and in the third quarter showed further gain to 111. - 013 or 21 2ri. of the total . In the full year 1932 the Ford V-8 accounted for only 10 6% of the passenger car registrations in this country with a total of 116,337 out of 1,096,399 for the industry , although including the four , Ford accounted for 23.6'l of the total . What promises to be a keener competitive race than ever before in the low price field has aroused considerable interest in the question of prices for 1934 cars . Predictions have been freely made that they would be higher and logically they should be in view of the increased costs of production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to show his hand for 1931 , his position is expected to have a bearing on the prices quoted by competitors . No one can predict what Ford will do Not even the company exwitives know in advance what It will be when Ford is about to announce a new price schedule Apparently Ford has found at least a partial answer to advancing material costs by the reopening of four of his ten steel furnaces and one blast furnace during the past week . For more than a year he has been getting his entire steel requirements from outside sources . The change may have some significance in connection with car prices . Higher Prices Indicated An Implication of higher prices is found in a recent Plymouth ad which carried the caption . " Cars are going to cost mom . I 'm glad we bought a Plymouth while the price is low ' That Chevrolet prices may be higher was indicated in a recent statement by M. E. Coyle , newly appointed general manager of the company . When asked about the probable prices of the new Chevrolet cars Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new car price can go with increased costs of operations under the automobile code . but prices . will be influenced by the volume of ; production " Because of careful adjustment of inaziufac : Lure to known market , the Buick Motor Co. will finish the selling year of 1033 with the most complete sell-out possible . Stocks of new 1933 cars in dealers ' hands are at a record low . Sales during the first 10 days of November continued the increases shown this year over the corre ' , spondmg periods of 1932 . Retail deliveries of Graham cars during the week of November 4. as reported by dealers were greater in volume than during any week since September 23 , according to 3 Pi Graham . president . " Sales thus far in the last quarter have been well sustained with eve ry inthention that the company is not likely to feel the usual sharp sl  --  unp in business daring the last two rnenths of the year . " he said " Our October sales were well ahead of those a year ago and thus far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in October were only 10'i- off from the volume In September . although the industry as a whole reported a 10 , drop for the same period " Pontiac Sales Holding Pontiac sales are holding up much more strongly during the latter part of this year than they did In 1932. according to A. NV . L. Gilpin. vice president and general sales manager During the first 10 clays of November sales exceeded retail delivcries in the corresponding 10 of 1932 and were the largest for thist period in any year since 2929 Pontiac sales through November 10 this year have exceeded , by a wide margin , the total for the corresponding period last year .                     