@@744650

The perverse people of Dakota are still blind to the honesty and benevolence of that large and good man , N. G. ORDWAY , whom a paternal Government appointed to be a ruler over them . They also refuse to recognize the public spirit of members of their own Legislature , and it is reported that a wicked Grand Jury has indicted four or five of Dakota 's most disinterested legislators upon the absurd charge that they were bribed to vote for Gov , ORDWA.Y 'S Capital Commission bill . The work of the nine persons who were appointed Commissioners to select a site for the new capital has been done in the face of many obstacles . After the nine escaped from the Sheriff at Yankton they began a tour through the Territory for the purpose of visiting those towns which desired to compete for the prize . Thd tourists ? were royally entertained . Seven towns , six of which are in the James River Valley , submitted bids . Each competitor was required to give to the  --  State $100,000 and 160 acres of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make a choice . While they were apparently engaged in careful deliberation for the benefit of their Territory their perverse constituents began to make , troubie by circulating new stories about the speculations of a " capital syndicate . " Every person in Dakota who venerates Gov . ORDWAY knows that there is no " capital syndicate . " It is a myth or the creature of corrupt imaginations . How absurd it is to suppose that the Governor would be connected with a combination organized for the purpose of buying members of the commission , secretly fixing upon a site , and getting possession of all the land around it ! It is more absurd to suppose that the Governor would be the head of such an organization . But some of the inhabitants of Dakota , who are probably fresh immigrants ignorant of the purity of Gov . ORDWAY 'S motives and the overflowing benevolence of his , heart , actually believe that there is a syndicate , and that he is at the head of it . And now when the Commissioners are deliberating , these persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatives are men of high integrity , declare that the site of the new capital was fixed even before the commission was appointed , and that the commission 's work was a farce . They even name the town , and by a strange coincidence it bears the name of Ordway . They say that this settlement was chosen by the speculators because it waasso remote , so small , so barren , and so weather-beaten that no one could think of buying any land around it . And they add that long before the first meeting of the Commissioners was held the syndicate bought nearly every foot of land within two miles of the centre of this village . Can it be possible that these stories are true ? Is it not more reasonable to suppose that the inhabitants of Dakota , including the Yankton Grand Jury , have been moved by envy and prejudice , and that these accusations have no foundation except in their darkened minds ? Gov . ORDWAY came to them a stranger , and they do not yet know him . It may be that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Shutting their eyes to his moral and physical grandeur , they have fashioned in their imaginations a fictitious Ordway to whom they have ascribed ambition , corrupt motives , political knavery , and the characteristics of a trickster . After their eyes shall have been opened , they may regret the blindness and perversity that led them to so misjudge their ruler . 