@@714350

In 1818 Simon Bolivar , liberator of many Latin-American republics , wrote : . ? we , for our part , shall hasten with the most lively interest to initiate consideration of an American pact , which , forming all our republics into a single body politic , will present America to the world in an aspect of majesty and grandeur unexampled among the nations of antiquity . " This Bolivar ambition has been brought substantially nearer realization . On Dec. 13 , two-thirds of the 21 American nations had ratified the " Bogota Charter . " The Organization of American States is now officially in being . While the full scope of Bolivar 's vision is not yet given reality , the charter has been destribed as the " greatest document yet adopted in inter-American history . " ? It lays clown broad principles and methods whereby the American nations will work together in maintaining peace and promoting human welfare , It outlaws war except in self-defense , and requires use of pacific means of settling disputes , 21 Nations Sign Colombia was the 14th state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OAS headquarters in the Pan American Building in Washington Dec. 13 by Ambassador Cipriano Restrepo Jaramillo , Ratification by two-thirds of the 21 American Republics was necessary . All the nations signed the treaty paving the way for the OAS at the inter-American Conference at Bogota in 1848 which was almost broken up by a civil uprising in Colombia . The Pan American Union in Washington is the OAS secretariat . Its council is identical with Ithe governing hoard of the Union , the oldest international organiza tion of nations in the world ( founded 1890 ) . Each OAS member has one representative ? an ambassador . The ambassadors meet twice each month to discuss Western Hemispheric affairs . Despite generally glowing statements , no one claims the organization is perfect . For example . there is a confusion of jurisdiction between the OAS council and the Inter-American Peace Committee on the handling of international disputes . Five-Man Peace Unit The five-man peace committee , activated in 1948 , is responsible only to the Inter-American Conferences and Meetings of Foreign Ministers , although it has interlocking membership with the OAS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how a controversy might be ironed out , whereas the council , which has restricted powers to enter a dispute , can use the threat of enforcement measures under the 1947 Rio Treaty . These include breaking off of diplomatic relations , economic sanctions and could , under a specific clause of the treaty , even extend to the use of armed force . The latter approach , naturally , is more effective  --  even though the peace committee has some admiral accomplishments in its brief record . After the committee twice failed to bring about an agreement in two bitter Caribbean disputes in 1950 the council achieved the desired results by firmly warning the disputes they would be taken to the woodshed if they did n't behave . No Veto t Power There arc , for voting purposes . no major or minor members of OAS , Every state , large and small , has an equal voice in decisions . There is no veto . Most decisions are taken by a simple majority vote , while only a few require two-thirds endorsement . The OAS accomplishes its purpose by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the council , the union , and the specialized organizations . The three regularly organized assemblies are : the Inter-American Conferences ( supreme authority of OAS ) ; the meetings of consultation of Foreign MMisters ; and specialized conferences . Each organization u a 1 ly grew out of bodies well established before the signing of the charter in 1948 . For example , the idea of Inter-American assemblies of representatives goes back as far as 1826 when the first Congress of Panama was called by Bolivar . UN Tie Stressed Since 1948 the organization has been functioning on a provisional basis  --  but has operated as vigorously as if the charter had been formally adopted . Alberto Lleras , OAS secretary-general , stresses that his organization is not in competition with the UN . He says it " does not even differ " from the UN in purpose and points to OAS cooperation with UN specialized agencies and efforts to avoid overlapipng of functions . " Not only does our organization continue to operate . " however , but it will have to function as long as the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adroitness in international relations that will permit them to live as the American states have lived for many years . This means in peace and security , under a democratic system in which every nation 's vote carries the same weight in all international decisions . " When President Truman signed the instrument of ratification last summer he declared that the unity of the American Republics was " giving an example to the free world . " Nations which already have ratified the charter are : the United States , Paraguay , Panama , Nicaragua , Mexico , Honduras , Haiti , El Salvador , Ecuador , the Dominican Republic , Costa Rica , Brazil , Bolivia , and Colombia .                     