@@696650

Approval of Albany Park property owners for 6161,000 of paving in that district will be sought by the board of local improvements at a public hearing next Friday morning . The hearing win be held in the city council chambers where a similar ' meeting was held early this month . In addition to the proposed paving in Albany Park the board will seek approval of a $40,600 paving project , installation of a water supply pipe system , and the sanction of property owners in condemning property for the opening of a street Two jobs constitute the work contemplated by the board in the Albany Park section , the larger costing an estimated $119,000 and the smaller costing $62,000 . The board would pave the following streets in Albany Park : ' rhorndale avenue between Kedzie and Central Park avenueetThristiana , Bernard , St. Louis , and Drake avenues between Peterson and ' Thorndzde avenues ; and Ainslie street between Spaulding and Lawndaie avenues . The $40,500 job includes paving and improving of Balmoral avenue between Western and Bowmanville avenues . The board seeks approval of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Sacramento avenue between Lawrence avenue and the North Shore channel . The water supply pipe system would cost $12,106 and would run in California avenue between Irving Park boulevard and Addison street Complete Walton Place Paving by Saturday The paving of Walton place from Lake Shore drive to Clark street , will be completed by Saturday , according to engineers of the board of local improvements . At the present time the work has been completed from Lake Shore drive to a point one-half block west of Michigan avenue . Paving gangs will resume work on Wednesday after an enforced layoff of a week while the concrete base was hardening . Lake Forest Kiwanians Resume Their Sessions The regular Thursday evening meetings of the Lake Forest Kiwanis club were resumed last week after the summer vacation period . The first meeting , presided over by President John Huhnke , was held at the new Deerpath inn . Plans for the coming season 's program were discussed .                     