@@706250

Mayor La Guardia . has recommended to President Roosevelt that civilian defense activities in the voluntary participation division , now supervised by Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt , be transferred to regular agencies of the government . " This would leave the protective activities of civilian defense where they belong ? in a separate agency of government , closely tied in with the military and naval forces and cooperating with local municipal governments , " he added . His recommendation was contained in a report , made public today , on the Office of Civilian Defense from its start May 20 , 1941 , to the time of his resignation as director this week . . " I have repeatedly stated that a ' sound theory of government suggests that permanent agencies of government should take over increased activities caused by an emergency in the related fields of their respective activities , " Mr. La Guardia wrote . " For that reason I was slow in developing other than protective activities in the Office of Civilian Defense . Most of the activities now centered in the voluntary participation division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been , and perhaps eventually will have to be , transferred to existing permanent divisions of government . " With the administrative force and activities of the participation division now expanding rapidly , Mrs. Roosevelt indicated on Thursday her intention to resign soon as its head and as assistant director of the OCD . Mr. La Guardia emphasized in the fifty-four-page printed report his view that civilian protection against air raids and military or naval attacks should be the major concern of the OCD . " Because the Office of Civilian Defense concentrated its first efforts primarily upon the grave problems of civilian protection the problems in civilian participation and community morale were taken up more slowly , " he wrote . " Now that the pioneer and creative work of establishing civilian defense is practically completed , efforts and personnel should be utilized in the field for training and supervision . " A large personnel ? always speaking of the protective activities in civilian defense ? is not required in Washington . The present officers of the Army and Navy and those who have developed the technique and have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uration . " Regarding the future of the protective forces , he continued : " If the military situation does not change , I believe that the protective side of civilian defense may continue to depend , as at present , on a civilian force of volunteers supplementing and reinforcing established police , fire and medical services of State and local governments . " Should , however , a situation arise where any section of our country may be subjected to sustained attacks similar to those suffered by British cities , then it will become necessary gradually to increase established departments of government and provide a percentage of paid full-time workers . " The Mayor reported that 8,459 local civilian defense organizations had been constituted , with 5,400 , - 000 volunteers , for whom he urged careful training . He also reported that since Dec. 7 forty-eight wings , 267 groups and 556 squadrons of the Civil Air Patrol have been organized and that 19,057 licensed pilots had registered as of Jan. 31 . " The objectives of the Civil Air Patrol are simple but important , " he stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort the great potential strength and skill involved in the civil aviation structures of the United States . "                     