@@709850

The conflict between Communist and anti-Communist elements in the Congress of Industrial Organizations was sharpened by two developments yesterday . In this city thirty-four leaders of CIO unions , claiming a combined membership of 150,000 , formed a committee to fight for the elimination of communist influence in the CIO . In Washington , Frank R. , for seven years president of the United Shoe Workers of America , resigned , charging that Communists were seeking to seize control of the union . The union 's general executive board , meeting in Atlantic City , characterized his action as a " union-busting " move and challenged Mr. to present his case before delegates to the union 's biennial convention , opening next Monday in the New Jersey resort . The New York anti-Communist group , operating as the " CIO Committee for Democratic Trade Unionism , " met in the regional offices of the United Automobile Workers at 101 West Thirty-first Street and announced its intention of carrying on a nation-wide campaign " in opposition to the encroachments of all brands of total-itarianism , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the Retail , Wholesale and Department Store Union , with Charles Kerrigan , regional director of de UAW , as secretary-treasurer . Included among the thirty- four sponsors are ranking officials of the Industrial Union of Marine and Shipbuilding Workers , the Utility Workers Union , the Textile Workers Union , the United Railroad Workers , the Plaything and Novelty Workers , the Oil Workers Union and the auto and retail and wholesale unions . Statement of Philosophy In a statement of its philosophy , the group accused the Communists of attempting to take over " our democratic institutions and our labor movement in order to sere the ends of a foreign nation and its ideology . " Conceding that Communists had made the CIO their special target and had " wormed their way " into some CIO industrial councils and local . and national unions , the committee said : " We are ? opposed to the ideology of the Communists , we are opposed to their tactics and their politics and we intend to devote our energies to presenting to CIO members and the American people a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy . " As elements in such a program , the committee called for the defense of labor 's right to strike and picket in support of its legitimate economic *demands , but warned that this right must not be abused through the calling of strikes for political purposes . It urged support for the election of Senator , ** as Governor " and ' formei ? Gov . Herbert H. Lehman as Senator and recommended the establishment of a State-wide CIO Political Action Committee . Other points in the program were a guaranteed annual wage , effective price control and expanded social insurance and housing activities . In resigning as head of the United Shoe Workers , Mr. charged that Communists in the union 's general executive board with endeavoring to " make an outcast of me by lies , intrigue , deceit and every other putrid instrumentality of which only they are past masters " because he stood in the way of their attempts to take over the union . He called on the full executive board to " fight to the last ditch " against proposals to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being put forward by the Communists as a device for capturing control . As part of their " unity " program , Mr. asserted , his enemies had offered him $5,000 if he would step aside . Pa Preserve " Self-respect " Mr. said he had become " so thoroughly disgusted with the dirty work of the Communists within our union " that he felt he had to resign to " preserve my self-respect . " Asserting that the great majority of the 50,000 members were " bitterly opposed to communism , " he urged the board to " deliberate calmly and wisely so that there shall be a strong , militant organization for the shoe workers in this country , free of communism , fascism and Ku Klux Klanism . " In a statement unanimously adopted by the sixteen members of the executive board at Atlantic City , the post of president was declared vacant on the ground that Mr. had defaulted by his failure to attend the board 's meeting . Asserting that no official resignation had been received by the board , the body branded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a " lie . " " His assertion that he resigned because the union is Communistdominated is nothing but a coverup for his desertion of his post , " the board asserted . " It is a known and undisputed fact that the very general executive board members who in the last nine months have fought to sustain him in the internal fight against his leadership are still in office and constitute the overwhelming majority of the leadership of our union . " Mr. failed in his leadship and has proved to be a union wrecker . He did not have the courage of his convictions to come to the executive board or to the convention following the board meeting to present his case to the membership . His action compares with the disruptive antics of all antiunion elements to whom the wild cry of communism is always a good alibi to cover up their union-wrecking activities . "                     