@@696750

What the flight of Dr. DORNIER 'S three-decked and twelve-motored airplane DO-X above Lake Constance , with 169 persons , means is that the heavier-than-air ship will challenge the dirigible in travel over sea and land . The latter costs a great deal more to construct . What some aeronautical engineers have been telling us is that the bigger the airplane the more difficult it would be to operate . They seem to have been wrong . The German designers have opened their eyes by producing the DO-X and showing that its twelve motors can carry fifty-two tons into the air . Moreover , this great flying ship leaves the water after less than a minute 's run and alights with a scarcely perceptible jar . It is as easy to manage as a tri-motor plane , and there is reason to believe that it is safer . Dr. DORNIER- has never said that it was capable of flying the Atlantic . This was his statement after its completion in July : The DO-X is intended mainly to solve the economic problem for flights over distances from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial flights in preparation for later transatlantic airplane lines . The economic problem he had in mind was the paying passenger airplane . The smaller German planes on regular routes can not be operated at a profit . Subsidies keep them going . But it may be another story if gigantic Dorniers can take up 100 passengers and transport them 600 miles at a speed of 120 miles an hour . It may be possible to build even larger ships that will fly from France or Ireland to Newfoundland , or over the South Atlantic by way of the Cape Verde Islands . Dr. DORNIER predicts that " flying ships " within a few years will grow to a " size which nobody dreamed of a " short time ago . " There are , he says , three principal causes of airplane accidents : overburdened pilots , overstrained motors and difficulty of access to conduits and steering apparatus . In building the DO-X he believes that he has eliminated them all . The pilots occupy a separate compartment where none can disturb them ; eight of the twelve motors can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the machinery are quickly accessible . The organization of the crew will be a captain , a first officer , a chief engineer , two pilots , four mechanics , a radio operator and a steward . Their quarters are on the top deck , the passengers occupy the second deck , and the lowest deck is for fuel and oil tanks . Far above on the wings are the twelve motors in sets of six , which makes the danger of fire and explosion negligible . The tendency in airplane construction lately has been toward big ships . The DO-X must not be confused with the Dornier Supernal flying boat . One of that type , a 30-passenger ship , was delivered in this country in September for the Detroit and Cleveland airline . Four motors are mounted on the wings . These ships will be used on the Great Lakes and the Eastern seaboard . In test flights they have been found easy to handle . Other planes built or building in Europe . and of about the same size , are the Junker , the Rohrbach-Romar , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Lufthansa in August made a trial flight of a RohrbachRomer from Travemtinde on the Baltic to Hull , Oslo , Copenhagen and return , 1,500 miles in seventeen hours . : This boat Alms intended to be a pioneer for the South American service by way of the ' Cape Verde Islands and Fernando Noronha to Rio de Janeiro . The DO-X is to be turned over to the Lufthansa . It would appear that a regular transatlantic airplane service will be established .                     