@@673150

BLOCK SYSTEMS . The recent rear-end collisions that have taken place in this neighborhood on lines of railroads that profess to be well protected by block signals have served to awaken renewed interest in the various block systems employed in this country , and they have led to the appointment by the American Railway Association of a committee empowered to investigate and report on tho uses and abuses of the block system . The inquiries that have thus far been made along these lines tend to show that , judging by the present advanced state of the system , the apparatus and rules of operation in use on the lines of some of the most important Eastern railways are , to say the least , inadequate . It has been ascertained , for instance , that common telegraph instruments are frequently used for intercommunication from one signal cabin to another , a practice condemned by the English railways more than twenty years ago when they were confronted with the same congestion of traffic which in this country has developed only recently . It has also been found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not in use , reliance has been had on ordinary electric bells for block signaling between the signal men , and experts are agreed that the bell code in use in this manner makes the system quite as unsafe as that in which the telegraph instrument is used . The code used in the electric-bell system is known to experts as the " positive " code . and it operates in this manner : As soon as the rear end of a train has passed a signal station , the signal having boon placed at " danger " to protect that train , the signal man at that station gives a certain bell signal to a station in the rear , thus intimating that the block section between the two stations is clear and that the rear station may admit another train without further permission . This code was found to be dangerous because of the liability of the signal man to assume that ho had received a clear signal , notwithstanding the presence of the block record on which the signals are entered . This danger has been obviated on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is known as the " affirmative " code . With this code safety appears to lie in the invariable reception of an " affirmative " signal in answer to a code signal just before placing the outdoor line signal iu the " clear " position . But even this apparently safe system has been found to have remarkable defects , in that audible signals arc exceedingly likely to become confused or forgotten altogether in the countless details requiring attention in the signal tower of lines doing a heavy traffic business . A minimum degree of danger would seem to be involved in the use of block . signals if in connection with the audible signals thus described there might also be employed an automatic indicator kept constantly in a position to be seen by the operator . This arrangement appears to have been perfected by two well-known electricians whose system may be briefly described as fdilows : The instrument is contained in a small cabinet having a glass front . There is a visual signal in the form of a miniature semaphore or disk , which at all times indicates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an audible signal in the form of a special single-tap bell . There are two plungers , one for signaling " line blocked " and the other for signaling " line clear , " and there is a small indicator or repeater which shows whether the visual signal at the distance stationed is in accord . The bell at the distant station is sounded every time the visual signal is changed , but there is a separate bell key for the purpose of sending the regular code signal . To make assurance doubly sure these instruments are constructed so as to guard against lightning and other foreign currents of electricity . SYKES 'S instrument , which was recently adopted in a modified form by the New York Central and the New-York , NewHaven and Hartford Road , embodies all the salient features of the system thus described , and goes a step further by interlocking with the switch ' and signal apparatus , so that not only must the lino signals be worked in harmony with the block instruments , but , as each signal is returned to " danger " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position . Once locked , it can not be changed except from the signal cabin at the other end of the block section by means of an electric current , and then only when the train has passed that cabin and the signal there has been placed at " danger . " This apparatus has been in use for some time by the London . Brighton and South Coast Railway , and by the London , Chatham and Dover . AS regards tho safe operation of the signals , it may be said . to be perfectly automatic . The signal ? man is present , but he is relieved of a vast amount of headwork , his function being simply to operate the apparatus and to obey the signals . this apparently safe apparatus accessible to all line 's of railways . it is difficult tar understand why the obsolete spate:Ma at present iu use on the heavy-traffic lines should not be removed and supplanted . The Whole Subject of the danger lurking in many of the existing systems of block signaling was exhaustively treated a few years ago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Just now . judged in the light of recent events , a further elucidation of the advanced ideas of block signaling will be in order .                     