@@731550

The success of a group of three Japanese terrorists in freeing one of their arrested comrades by holding two West European governments to ransom was the subject of angry comment in Israel . Some Israelis pointed out that victory in plane hijacking began in 1968 when the Algerian Government offered asylum to three members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine ( who had forced an Israeli airliner to land in Algiers ) and detained both the plane and its Israeli male passengers for a number of days . These Israelis noted wryly that it was the Foreign Minister of Algeria who has just been chosen President of the United Nations General Assembly . Several newspapers commented that hijackings and kidnappings can succeed only because " some countries " in the world agreed to shelter the perpetrators . Antiterror action should start in those countries , they added . Airport available The evening paper Ma'ariv wrote : The scheme of the Japanese gunmen worked only because an aircraft with four criminals on board was able to land in Damascus . Without a safe airport , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ govern *Please turn to Page 8 *Israelis rap those aiding skyjackers // ments of France and Holland iniow this simple truth . But they have refrained . . . from uttering even a single word of displeasure . . . against the Syrian Government , the most natural thing to do . . . . " The paper said that Damascus was not the only haven of refuge for terrorists . It named Cairo and Tripoli , the capitals of Egypt and Libya , as other " havens , " and asserted that the Japanese Red Army , to which the Japanese terrorists belonged , maintained a training camp in Lebanon . Another Israeli evening paper , Yediot Achronot , agreed with Ma'ari v 's view but focused Its observations on the United Nations scene : " It is tragicthat the joint call of the Dutch Prime Minister and the chairman of the International Airline Pilots Association for a vigorous campaign to eradicate terror comes at a time when the UN Assembly is about to give official recognition to the Palestine Liberation Organization , a terror organization par excellence . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the paper said , " they will give it wings . " The liberal daily Ha'aretz said the actions of the governments of France and Holland " are virtual invitations to the terrorists to continue their nefarious deeds in the future . " The Labor Party 's Davar remarked : " All measures against terror are likely to fail unless the rule is adopted that every state that wants to maintain a normal system of international relations must treat international terrorists as criminals who deserve punishment . If Syria grants the terrorists asylum , it ought to be banished from the family of all nations who appreciate the rule of law . " The English-language Jerusalem Post noted : " There is a growing body of evidence that the kid-glove method with terrorists is not effective against this scourge , and that the system of helpfully ferrying them around the world allows them to continue operations . "                     