@@780750

The announcement by cable that Capt . F. W. Dawson , editor of the News and Courier , had been created:a Knight of the Order of St. George by the Pope was naturally the subject of general conversation in Charleston to-day , and a good many facts have been elicited which have never before been published . Cant . Dawson is an Englishman by birth . He joined the Confederate service in 1861 and served with distinction during the war . the latter part of the time on the staff of Fitz-Hugh Lee . After the surrender he came to Charleston and served for some time as associate editor of the Nercuru , and left that paper on becoming part owner and editor of the Charleston News . Demands looking to a duel were made by the manager of the Mer-cure. to which Dawson 's response was that , being a Roman Catholic , under no circumstances would he accept a challenge or fight a duel . In 1876 a similar demand was made by Gen. Gary , the wellknown " tire-eater , " and was declined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the duelo when the Cash-Shannon duel took place in 1880 . Up to that time there had never been in South Carolina a trial at common law for murder in a duel . Cash was tried , and although the jury disagreed on the first trial and a verdict of acquittal was rendered on the second trial , these trials were a deathly blow to the dueling system in this State . The Legislature took the matter up and passed a statute making dueling murderand requiring evers , public officer in the State , in addition to the usual official oath , to take an oath not to send or receive a challenge or engage in a duel while in office . There has not been a duel in the State since the passage of this law . On account of his active part In accomplishing these results Dawson has been subjected to great personal danger and . abuse . The distinction conferred on Dawson by the Pope on account of the stand be has taken against dueling came entirely through the efforts of the late Roman Catholic Bishop of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bishop , who , becoming acquainted with what had been done in this State , asked the Pope to confer on him some distinguishing mark of approval . No one in this country took any part in the matter beyond the statement of the Bishop of Charleston , whets the matter was referred to him . who stated that the distinction was deserved and most proper to be granted . It is probable that dis-tinctions of a similar kind have been conferred on Americans before , but never before on the avowed grounds of service rendered to good morals in such a mode as the suppression of dueling.                     