@@725250

The second session of the 89th Congress assembled briefly today . then quit for two days to let President Johnson have the first word on its most burning interest  --  the war in Vietnam . Mr. Johnson will give that word in prime television time when he delivers his State of the Union message before a joint session and a nationwide audience at 9 P.M. Wednesday . Even before , however , the White House disclosed late today that it had been in direct contact with Hanoi on the question of peace negotiations , what is expected to be a continuing debate opened in a flurry or press releases and interviews . Senator John Sherman Cooper ) of Kentucky raised a strong Republican voice in support of the President 's drive for a negotiated settlement  - -  -  a campaign some other leading Republicans have been criticizing . Senator Cooper , obviously chafing under opening day procedures that prevented him from taking the Senate floor , issued a statement saying that " negotiation . not escalation , should be the dominant theme of our activity now . " Two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bombing of North Vietnam that is the main effort in Mr. Johnson 's so-called peace offensive . " There 's a limit how long we can keep this up . " said Representative Leslie C. Arends of Illinois , the assistant leader of I louse Republicans . " Something " will have to be done unless the North Vietnamese show willingness ' ' to talk these things over , " he said . Senator Bourke B. Hickenpublican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , put it more bluntly . " I do n't see that the su pension has accomplished anything " he said . " I think it is a mistake to stop the pressure . " As usual , the harshest words came from Representative L. Mendel Rivers . Democrat . of South Carolina , the flamboyant chairman of the house Armed Services ComnUttee . Asked if he thought the bombing  --  of North Vietnam should be started again , he replied : " I think it should start yesterday ? no , make it the day before yesterday . " He said he favored " unleashing " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you 'd see the fur fly . " he said . Pointing up the divisions on Vietnam in Congress as a whole and in the President 's party. , Senator Joseph S. Clark , Demo- ? crat of Pennsylvania , emphati- ? cally disagreed with Mr. Rivers . The people . Senator Clark said , do not want " the reckless , and impatient bomb throwers to force the President 's hand or limit his flexibility of action . " , " What they want - and what I want - is to give the President complete freedom t play out the st-ing for peace , - Mr. Clark said . Interest Focused on War These remarks , all del vered in interviews or statements . illustrated the intense interest of Congress in the Vietnamese war . The members sense that the war could become a divisive political issue in a year when all members of the House and 35 Senators face re-election campai ems . " I think that every piece of legislation we consider v : ill be colored by the situation in Vietnam , " said Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate Armed Services Committee . He is a critic of the bombing pause . From the White Ibmse came ? if not an invitation to debate ? at least acquiescence in the general expectation that mem-. , bers of Congress will spend : much of the session supporting and criticizing the war . Bill D. Moyers. the White House press secretary . said he , knew of nothing to confirm reports that Mr. Johnson told Congressional leaders that he would " welcome " a full-dress debate . But he also said : " The President knows that it is the duty as well as the right of Congre. -s to consider carefully all iy.o : : ? ttni and that affect thi : country , including what is happening in Vietnam and the Administration 's policies on Vietnam . Whatever happens is a matter for Congress , and will be regarded by the , President as such . in every mind today 's sessions seemed even more perfunctory and routine than most opening days . The Senate met for 15 minutes , before nearly full galleries . swore in its lone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Virginia , and adjourned . The House met for an hour with Mr. Albert in the chair in the absence of Speaker John W. McCormack of Massachusetts . Mr. McCormack was attending the funeral of a brother . Says Debate Is Welcomed for negotiations but " I know that he has always , - mak  --  lear , without reserva - welcomed . in the past , careful tion , that negotiations could and thorough discussions . " include the Vietcong , because it There were reports last year . is obvious that neither negotiahowever , that Mr. Johnson had , tines n nor a settlement are posgone to considerable lengths tor sible without their inclusion . " persuade Congress to avoid genSo far , the . Administration eral debate on Vietnam . fearhas steadfastly refused to say ing that such debate might erethat it would be willing to deal ate the impression of a divided country . , with the Vietcong or their polititem i one said Moyers cal arm , the National LiberaMr. sure to set off a round of ora- , tion Front . not only to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a $13-billion supplemental appropriation bill to fi- , nance the war for the rest of i this year and next , would not be sent to Congress this week . He said he did not know when it would be . Jan. 24 . Mr. Moyers said , is the date for the submission to Congress of the Federal budget . expected to he the largest in history because of the growing cost of the Vietnamese war . That is one cause of the expected outburst of debate on ; the war this year . To finance it . Mr. Johnson is expected either to reduce domestic ex penditures for his Great Society , program , or to raise taxes , or ' both . Many members . however , are reluctant to see taxes go up or , domestic programs sacrificed to a little understood war . House Democratic leaders said they did not foresee a tax increase or a drastic cutback in the Great Society . " Building a strong America at home ca n't hurt the military posture of the country . " said Representative Carl Albert of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Teaching children to read and write , putting food on the table of the poor , will help build the national strength . " Republican leaders , however , have been calling for sharp reductions in domestic spending . The other major cause of debate is the dissension on the proper way to conduct the war . Senator Cooper 's statement today took on particular interest because his is one of the most respected Republican voices on foreign affairs and because the general Republican trend has been toward the advocacy of a " hard " military line in Vietnam . Senator Cooper , however , *sailed today for the President                     