@@699250

Miscellaneous consumers , who have contributed the bulk of the orders which carne to the steel industry in the past few weeks , have been curtailing their demands in the last few days . Whether this attitude is due to the increased caution usually encountered prior to a national election or to the fact that these users believe they have arranged for sufficient steel to meet their needs for the next few months remains to be seen . All the steel markets have a pre-election appearance . Demand being smaller , there has been a greater tendency toward irregularity in quotations in some products . So far as can be learned concessions have not been large , but it is admitted that some shading has been in progress . Naturally this practice would have a tendency toward slowing down the orders until consumers have some indication as to what the price structure will be in the near future . Irregular changes have occurred in production also . In districts , such as Birmingham and Cleveland , where the output has been quite high and holding well heretofore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , other sections report a rather steady rate of production , with slight increases here and there , so that the net result seems to be a continuation of the 19'l , or 19/e , - ; average rate of ingot output which existed a week ago . Better Rall Demand Seen Railroad buying is assuming somewhat more important proportions . While rail business has been confined to small lots , thus far , there are signs of a considerable increase in the steel requirements for car repairs and new equipment . It is still considered quite likely that the best railroad business will come in miscellaneous steel rather than in rails , because many of the carriers have tonnages of tracks available from past years which can and will be laid be . fore new deliveries are arranged for . It would require only a moderate increase in freight traffic , with evidence of slow but gradual improvement to bring railroad authorities around to the consideration of steel for cars , etc . Auto Buying Not Yet in Evidence Automobile steel buying has not yet increased to the extent looked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the motor car companies will be more active as consumers in the near future . This is indicated by the ac , tivities in connection with new models planned to be started before the end of the current month . Motor demand , if it develops , could take up some of the slack which has occurred / in the buying by other interests . The present belief is that the price of tin plate for 1933 delivery will be established within two weeks . However , nothing has come from authoritative quarters on the matter , either as to the tune the quotation will be fixed , or what the new level will be . In line with the trend in other steel products recently it is reasonable to anticipate a reduction in the price from the $4.75 per base box figure which existed on the general run of business during the current year .                     