@@733350

ONE OF TWO gunmen killed by Riverside police Tuesday night closely resembled William A. Eubank , a former Wilmette resident who insists a " look-alike " committed the four suburban home invasions for which he has been indicted , Police said the modus operandi used by the two gunmen in their Riverside robbery also closely matched several of the home invasions that the 43-yearold Eubank is accused of committing . The dead gunmen were positively identified Thursday through fingerprints as Phillip Grant , 34 , of 27181/2 Central St. , Evanston ; and Norman H. Tripp Jr. , 40 , of Miami , Fla . Both previously had been imprisoned for home invasions , according to Riverside Police Chief Donald Doneske . They were killed Ina shootout late Tuesday by Riverside police outside the home of Alfred Giusfredi , 309 Uvedale Rd. , while trying to escape with $10,000 In jewelry . THE SUGGESTION of mistaken identity emerged Thursday , when a victim of an Oct. 18 Highland Park robbery identified a photograph of Tripp as one of two gunmen who invaded his home , tied up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's photograph had been selected as " looking like " the robber , said Angelo Russo , deputy police chief of Highland Park . However , when the robbery was committed , Eubank was in Lake County Jail awaiting trial for another home invasion in Highland Park that he allegedly committed but denies . Detectives dropped him as a suspect in the Oct. 1B robbery once they accounted for his whereabouts . In both the Rivreside and Highland Park home invasions , a gunman was admitted to the house after posing as a plainclothes policeman and producing a badge . The same ruse was used in several of the robberies that Eubank is accused of committing . Police said there are other similarities , including an accomplice wearing a ski mask . EUBANK 'S LAWYER , Patrick Tulle , said police in several suburbs who suspect Eubank of home invasions . now have agreed to show the victims photographs of Tripp . Eubank is athletically trim and could easily pass for a man in his mid-30s . Both lie and Tripp also had light hair , identical builds and heights and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denied any involvement in the four home Invasions and an attempted burglary he was charged with committing . Partly because of an arrest record dating back to his teen-age years , and because of an arrest record dating back to his teen-age years , and because of a 1968 conviction for armed robbery for which Eubank served 4 years , 1 months in prison , police have benerally discounted his protests of innocence . tie is currently free on bond . The attempted burglary and two of the hove invasion charges have been dismissed . He is awaiting trial on one invasion charge , and possible retrial of another because of a hung jury ,                     