@@715550

Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill has made a new appeal to Russia to reopen negotiations for a united Germany . The appeal was made in a message to West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer. the text of which was issued from 10 Downing Street late June 24 . Sir Winston is considered here thus to have underscored German unification as a top priority issue for the Bermuda talks and for a top-level conference with the Soviets which Sir Winston hopes will follow Bermuda . Diplomatic Approach The Prime Minister 's note to Dr. Adenauer is seen to contain a more specific approach to Russia than his foreign policy speech in the House of Commons last month . It is understood Sir Winston believes that the Russians have been shocked and sobered by the flare-up in East Germany and may be more ready to try to reach a settlement . For this reason , Sir Winston and Selwyn Lloyd , his chief foreign adviser in the absence of Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden , are being as diplomatic as possible in their references to Rus-sia concerning the German question . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Federal ; German Chancellor 's appeal to ; the western powers following the , East Berlin riots . It was an appeal for western action . In some circles in Britain , the Adenauer appeal was seen as a rather emotional outburst which was considered excusable , however , in view of the happenings in East Berlin . It was a passionate outcry for help . Reply Not Emotional Sir Winston 's reply is certainly not emotional . It agrees that the question of German unity has become of " urgent necessity . " But Sir Winston has warned Dr. Adenauer that he believes the only way to reach a settlement of the German question is on the basis of the terms of the western note to Moscow of Sept. 23 , 1952 , calling for free elections in both West and East Germany . It was obvious in the Commons . June 24 , that Mr. Lloyd was anxious not to be prompted into comments about the East Berlin riots which would provoke the Russians . In fact , there was the unusual experience of hearing the Conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the British Socialists , Socialists Indignant After telling the Commons that the Russians had moved three mechanized divisions into East Berlin when the East German Government 's martial law efforts had failed , Mr. Lloyd said he thought that under the circumstances the Russians had shown a considerable amount of restrai nt . There were indignant protests from the Labor benches with assertions that British trade unionists were horrified at the way the demonstrators were punished which , it was claimed , was contrary to the charter of human rights of the United Nations . Labor backbencher Woodrow Wyatt asked Mr. Lloyd whether he was trying to " condone the action of the Soviet authorities in , for example , taking out Tillie Gtittling , an ordinary German worker who knew nothing about politics whatever , and shooting him without a trial . " Mr. Lloyd said he was not trying to condone any such thing . Earlier in his - statement , Mr. Lloyd . bad counseled the East Germans to exercise prudence and restraint so that further violence and suffering might be avoided . The Churchill government is clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biggest target of all in world affairs namely a new attempt to get the Russians to reach a settlement on Germany .                     