@@723350

Letters to The Times Fin . Treaty 's Ratification Reservations Opposed Moreover , special reservations in a multilateral treaty can cause endless confusion . Suppose a hundred states adhering to the treaty each added a different reservation of its own  --  what would be the final agreement between the hundred states ? Under our Constitutional processes the Senate must and should form its own judgment on treaties . But it should do so as an integral part of the Government of the United States . There is no reason for approaching the test-ban issue as if the Senate were hearing of it for the first time when the treaty was transmitted by the President , and for the first time learning of an American proposal which essentially dates from 1959 . On few issues of our time has there been such a Niagara of books , articles , research projects , conferences , and debates . The impact of a test ban on our relative military posture and prospects has been under continuous appraisal by scientists , military experts and impartial analysts for years . Early reactions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are difficult to understand . This is one of the shortest treaties ever written on an important subject , and there really is no " fine print . " The operative provision recites the limited test ban in simple terms . The termination provision is realistic . As to the question of possible implied recognition of unrecognized regimes , the practice of enacting treaties permitting the subsequent adherence of States not original parties brought with it the custom of disregarding 3. ny implication of resulting recognition of their governments . Recognition Intent Such states , or entities claiming to be states , are thus obligated without their governments being recognized . Recognition is a Matter intent , . not of any technicality or formality . This is fortunate in the present case , since obviously a paranount desideratum would be the scceptance of the test-ban treaty by : he Communist Government of Dhina . Because of our Constitutional pro3edures  --  unlike those of the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom ? we mist quite properly have a sustained airing of the issues before he Senate , in the course of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the world . If these statements are allowed Member of Profession Reflects on Dubious Advantages It Offers To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : New York City policemen and firemen with a high school diploma earn $8,000 after three years . Teachers earn approximately $2,300 less . Consider the parental sacrifices and student effort behind any college degree which teaching requires . But it is worth it . You have 30 extra " vacation " days to catch up with the men in blue . If you 're lazy and do graduate work at some university for the summer , you will normally catch up in 10 years under the present salary schedule . Where else do you have a work and professional schedule averaging 50 hours a week , teaching oversized classes , catering to the 5 per cent , vicious , disruptive element in an antiquated school located in a deprived area , without proper materials and sufficient teachers ? The 50 hours are neatly rounded out by conferences , preparations , clerical work , parents and graduate school . Remember that I did not mention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the $80 a week takehome pay . What teaching lacks in monetary rewards is well made up by excite ? ment . You teach trivia most of the time because it is demanded by a number of neurotic parents , backed by the board 's bureaucratic bosses and justified in the atmosphere of progressive permissiveness so " necessary to the development of the whole child . " Occupational Hazards That same " whole child " heaps verbal and physical abuse on the teacher , whom he looks straight in the eye and outweighs by 30 pounds . If the " whole child " does n't do the job , you may be confronted with the " whole family " who are eager to work off their tensions . I used to welcome that morning prayer , sincerely offered up that I would last the day . Now I 'm completely defenseless . It 's gone . ? Perhaps I should give up the popular idea of remaining as a dedicated East Harlem missionary . The grass is greener in Mamaroneck where I live . In fact , in some parts it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich , overweight good citizen , sitting on his power mower , wondering- if those " ungrateful teachers in New York City will strike . " DICK CAPOZZOLA , East Harlem Leader , District 10 United Federation of Teachers . Mamaroneck , N. Y. , Aug. 5 , 1963 . Teachers Stand Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The New York City teachers are following the common pattern of placing responsibility for the strike they threaten on those who will not or can not meet their demands . Although they have a genuine grievance in the unfavorable conditions under which they work , they seem to be shouldering this grievance aside by insisting upon an increase in salary when there is barely money enough to correct the deplorable conditions of which they complain . Teachers , receiving salaries ranging from $5,300 for beginners to more than $10,000 for a year of 190 working days , average approximately $28 to $52 a day , and a short day at that . It would be interesting to learn how many of them earn additional income in outside activities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sense of power emanating from a strong organization prompts them to say " We demand " when they can not say " We deserve . " I think a strike would be an irresponsible act revealing more greed than grievance . JACOB J. LEIBSON . Halcott Center , N. Y. , Aug. 5 , 1963 . Test in English Upheld Court Decision Is Quoted in Support of Literacy Requirement , To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMniv , We commend your Aug. 1 editorial defending the present English literacy requirement for voting in the State Constitution . In. a recent evaluation of votir.g eligibility requirements in , this state ; members of the League- of Women Voters throughout the state agreed that the English literacy requirement should be retained as a fair and reasonable standard for protecting the use of the franchisq . A 1961 United States District Court ( Southern district ) decision clearly refutes the charge made by Paul Screvane , President of the City Council , in which he is reported as having said , " The literacy test is nothing more than the perpetuation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are forming a black chapter in our nation 's history . " Appropriate excerpts from the court 's decision follow : " What is more proper than that the voter be literate in the language used to conduct the business of his Government . . . The literacy requirement is applicable to all citizens of New York without regard to race , color , creed or sex . No charge is made that the test is improperly given or its contents unfair . The test is equally and fairly applied to all who take it . " In some states where literacy tests are improperly given , the charges that they are used to prevent people from registering and voting appear to be substantiated . This is not true however in New York State . Literacy tests here are under the strict control of the Board of Regents and are not subject to either interpretation or manipulation by anyone charged with administering the tests . Available Sources We do believe that more aggressive steps can be taken to help non-English speaking citizens learn about the opportunities available to them to learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to those who have a greater . facility in Spanish than in English ? including the Spanish press and radio and the league 's Spanish edition of its " Facts for Voters " publication ? we believe that many of these people merely need to he encouraged to take the literacy test - in order to fulfill requirements for voting . We propose that the newspapers publish sample literacy tests to alleviate the fears of some who can in. fact read and write in English but who believe the tests are too difficult to attempt . MARTHA S. GREEN AWAtT , President , League of Women Voters . New York , Aug. 6 , 1963 . Africa No Place for Portugal To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am one of the few Africans Nviv. do not completely disagree with your editorials on African policies concerning the methods being used by Africans to oust Portugal and South Africa- from international 0. ranizations connected with the U.N.U 0 But . your July 22 editorial entitled " Dangerous African Haste . ' beats me hollow . You ' describe tho Portuguese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and as suchl specifically excluded from actual jurisdiction of the U.N . " This statement in my opinion shows a crass misunderstanding of the basic cause of African agitations against Portugal in the U.N . The .. African has insistently harped on the fact that no jot of African soil can be an extension of Europe . Foreign domination of any part of Africa is just as obnoxious to all Africans as Communist infiltration of the Western Hemisphere is to all Americans . Furthermore , you can not make Portuguese out of Africans . Portugal 's claim to certain sections of the African continent as her " overseas provinces " is a violation of the rights and dignity of the Africans who occupy those sections . For a handful of Portuguese armed with supplies from allies to dominate millions of . Africans and expect peace seems to me impossible without U.N . intervention . OLUWOLE ODUJINIZI . Hamburg , N. Y. , July 26 , 1963. to dominate public attention out of proportion to their real backing , and if the margin of ratification is unimpressive , we may end by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not skilled in sorting out responsible from irresponsible and official from unofficial American utterances  --  to have been reluctantly dragged by the Soviet Union into accepting the very treaty we initiated . For this reason , it is of prime importance that the Senators use this opportunity not merely to scrutinize the details of the treaty , but also to reaffirm before all the world America 's determination to provide leadership in the cause of international security and peace , and to confirm that determination by an overwhelming and resounding vote in favor of the treaty . ARTHUR LARSON , Durham , N.C. , Aug. 9 , 1963 . A Teacher 's Lot Arthur Larson Stresses Need for Overwhelming Senate Vote ? The writer of the following letter was formerly head of the United , States InformationAgency . He is not director of the World Rule of Law Center at Duke University . TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As to the ratification of the testban treaty , the prevalent opinion now seems to be that the necessary two-thirds majority will be obtained . But the question is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is how it will be ratified . There has been some speculation that the Senate might add certain reservations to the treaty . Superficially - this might appear to be a vehicle for relatively harmless concessions to win added votes . Actually , because of the special background of this treaty , any reservation might be just as fatal as outright rejection . Some months ago Chairman Khrushchev apparently became convinced that he had an informal commitment by the United States to accept a test-ban treaty with three on-site inspections . His hard-line militarist critics warned him that if he agreed to this the United States would only demand something more . Nevertheless he made a public announcement of his willingness to accept three inspections , which was immediately met by the American reply that there must have been an honest misunderstanding , and that we had never intended to indicate agreement to anything less than something in the neighborhood of seven inspections . At this , Khrushchev is said to have become extremely embittered and to have sworn never again to be taken in by the Americans . Now that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ban , against the backdrop of this episode it can be seen that a demand by the United States for even some comparatively minor added concession might torpedo the . entire treaty and Soviet-American relations with it . Training Youth on Ellis Island TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIN ! ES : I am opposed to any commercial use of Ellis Island . Something very worthwhile , inspiring and of great moral - and physical help could be developed for youth training and rehabilitation within sight of the immortal words of Emma Lazarus on the Statue of Liberty , the gateway to our country . ROSE F. DtIRS- : ? Lake Placid , N. Y. , Aug. 6 , 1963.                     