@@718250

Adlai Stevenson told a Democratic rally at Oklahoma 's state fair here this afternoon that the prosperity , possibly even the existence , of the people who run their own farms , keep store , or work for themselves is threatened by the " curse of bigness . " " They are in danger of being swallowed up by big corporations in alliance with big government in a world which has become dangerous . ly indifferent to the fate of little men , " said the Democratic Presidential candidate . Spoke Earlier in Tulsa Stevenson flew from Denver to Tulsa this morning , addressed a rally on the lawn of the Tulsa county courthouse , and then proceeded by motorcade to the state capital , stopping for brief talks in Bristow and Chandler . This is expected to be his only appearance in Oklahoma , ' which gave its eight electoral votes to President Eisenhower by a margin of 87,000 in 1952 . Oklahoma 's Sen. Kerr assured Stevenson that he will carry the state by a majority of 75,000 this year . Kerr said there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hit by the drouth . Stands Are Filled The f air grounds stands , seating 8,000 , were f ill e d when Stevenson spoke . About 5,000 turned out for his talk in Tulsa , 1,000 in Bristow , and 3,000 in Chandler . Few people were on the sidewalks of Tulsa and Oklahoma City when the candidate 's motorcade passed thru the main business districts . Sen. Monroney introduced Stevenson at the fair grounds but Sen. Kerr got the biggest laugh from the crowd with a jibe at President Eisenhower . He said the President told the farmers at Newton , Ia. , last Saturday that while they might think him crazy he hoped they would not doubt his honesty , " I do n't believe , " said Kerr , " that the tens of thousands of farmers and the thousands of small business men who have been forced into bankruptcy will get much comfort out of the fact that ' while Eisenhower may be a little bit crazy he is at least honest . " Says Big Business Rules Stevenson charged that the Eisenhower administration is dominated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests capture control of the government , then government becomes indifferent to the interests of the people , " he said . " Such a government does not think of the world in human terms . Such a government thinks in terms of statistics ? and of interest rates , mortgages , stocks , bonds , and balance sheets . It thinks less of the people on whom the businesses themselves depend and for whom the government itself exists . " That is the kind of government we have now in Washington . " Speaks of Drouth S t even son acknowledged that big business has become more responsible in modern times and has " a respected place in our national community . " But it " does not own the United States government , and it is not entitled to run that government to the disregard and neglect of the farmers , the working men , the small business man , and other plain people of the land , " he said . Stevenson said the people of Oklahoma had been thru the " searing human experience of drouth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Eisenhower administraI ion . " It was typical that this administration should raise the interest rate or disaster loans , " he said . Soil Bank Democratic Stevenson said the Eisenhower administration ignored the ! armers for three years and then affected " leap year liberalism . " " They seized on the soil bank , " he went on , " not to conserve the soil but to conserve the farm vote . The soil bank is a good Democratic idea and I have long been for it . I hate to see it treated by the Republicans merely as a way of pouring some money Into the farm belt before an election . " Stevenson accused the . administration of ignoring cattlemen and helping the packers , whose profits , he said , have soared at the expense of both producers and consumers . " Ten years ago the producer got 52 cents out of every consumer iiollar spent on food , " Stevenson said . " Now he gets about 40 cents . I think the American people have a right to know why . " Derides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is campaigning for the Presidency on a promise of " unprecedented abundance " for every American , derided Vice President Nixon 's claim that Republican leadership offers hope of " a future in which poverty will be a forgotten word in the United StAtes . " He said Nixon 's boast reminded him of this statement , on Oct. 22 , 1928 , by President Hoover : " We are nearer today to the abolition of poverty from the lives of men and women than ever before in any land . " In his talk at Chandllr Stevenson recalled pledges made by President Eisenhower in 1952 to continue rigid farm price supports at 90 per cent of parity , and otherwise to help farmers obtain full parity prices in the market . He challenged the President to tell the farmers " just what he has done to fulfill those commitments " when he s p e a k s at Peoria tomorrow night .                     