@@713450

Former American military government officers in Korea were verbally spanked tonight for having designed homes for Koreans that cost 10 to 20 times as much as acceptable Korean housing and filling that nation 's warehouses with " expensive but useless intentions . " DO . Edgar A. J. Johnson , director of the Korea program division of the economic cooperation administration , told a meeting of the Military Government association that there were too many " do it the American way " enthusiasts in military government . When the 8th army took over Pusan last summer , he said , it had to empty all the warehouses to make room for incoming military supplies . Fish Net Floats  --  Umtsuable " Here were 254 drums of fishnet preservatives that the Koreans refused to use , " he said , 243,000 fish net floats that the Koreans said they could not use ; 542 bales of manila netting and 960 bales of cotton netting that were usable only if the Koreans had trawlers  --  which they did not . " By American standards , " Dr. Johnson continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 or 20 times as much as wholly acceptable Korean housing would have cost , because Korean houses are framed with round poles rather than sawed lumber , have mud walls rather than matched boards and use thatch for roof instead of asphalt shingles . He said the military government men " had to have steam shovels and sheep-foot packers to build a half mile of road . " " There were , large quantities of expensive but useless good intentions , all so urgently requisitioned , only to clutter up the all-toolimiter : warehouse space . " Gen. Lucias D. Clay , chairman of the New York - state civil defensecommission and former military governor of Germany , told the military government group this , country would have been " invincible " behind its oiVn borders but chose to fight for freedom in Korea . The Military Government association is composed of former military government personnel , army and civilian .                     