@@725450

The political crisis has come in South Vietnam with no one adequately prepared for it , on the side of the Ky government and of the United States . Both governments are improvising under the most difficult circumstances . The only alternative to political repression , imposed by the military and police power of the Ky government , was the speedy formation of a civilian government . This was generally recognized both in Washington and Saigon . Yet , so great was the desire to avoid being forced to take such a step under pressure that neither Premier Nguyen Cao Ky nor President Johnson had practical plans ready . The attempt at political repression by armed force has therefore begun . Assembly of leaders At the same time , an emergency effort is under way to take a positive step forward on the political side . When the crisis began to pile up , " intensive discussions " were held between leaders of the Saigon government and political and religious groups . An " assembly of leaders " is to be held , if possible , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Department announced . It remains to be seen whether enough of the political opposition will accept . The Buddhist leaders wanted an elected assembly . This one will have to be appointed , since it meets so suddenly . Washington has taken the unusual step of merely noting the fact that the Ky government " has indicated that it will move to restore order , especially in the Da Nang area . " This was regarded here as the greatest possible understatement of what Premier Ky said he planned to do . At the same time , the United States said it " welcomed " the political discussions , while recognizing it was the province of the South Vietnamese to resolve " the political problem . " Unusual a pp roach Washington also said , " We favor an immediate move along the lines of the planned political meeting , " and " are hopeful " that the problem can be resolved " on a national basis " ? which means including " all appropriate groups " and not merely those supporting the Ky government . It was unusual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis on political steps , and remain so silent about " restoring order . " The obvious desire , here , is to refrain from taking a step that would link it to the immediate " strong and determined " steps promised by Premier Ky to crush what he unquestioningly labeled as a Viet Cong rebellion . The memories of United States intervention in the Dominican Republic crisis of last year remain strong in the White House . A major force of the marines 11 ? at President Johnson sent into Santo Domingo , at that time , is camped close to the Vietnamese city of Da Nang , a major source of the political disaffection . No marine is moving at this writing . President Johnson , who first intervened // * Mounting Viet crisis traps U.S. // on the side of military repression in the Caribbean country , seems to be hoping that he can remain detached in the far more serious military repression in Vietnam , so far as can be judged here . Two-way approach While White House and State Department hold back , all Washington watches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gravity of the events that are unrolling in Saigon by improvisation and by the momentum of an enraged military government . It was serious enough when the Latin-American policy of the United States was caught in a military counterrevolution on a Caribbean island . But in Asia , the worldwide postwar policy of the containment of Soviet-Chinese communism hangs in the balance . In this chastened capital , officials are well aware of the power of the yeasty political forces that are at work in the developing countries , and of the power students , religious groups , aggrieved generals and the like have to frustrate even a determined military effort to restrain them , once they have built up a momentum . No one here doubts that Viet Cong agents are hard at work , doing as much as possible to ignite trouble , with techniques in which they are well trained and proficient . But there is likewise no doubt here that the political protest contains elements that are legitimate ? so much so that President Johnson went on record at Honolulu as strongly favoring " social revolution " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both the Ky government and the White House . Which is more important : To deal with the Communist element ? Or to deal with the non-Communist political protest ? And how to distinguish between the two ? When soldiers and police marched with dissenters in the South Vietnamese city of Hue , over the weekend , and police in the city of Da Natig , it was recognized here that the situation would be difficult for Premier Ky to control . And when Premier Ky decided to gamble on a full-scale effort to denounce the opposition as Communists and attack them with paratroopers , there was no confidence visible here as to what the outcome would be . The technical policy of the Saigon government  --  one of pledging steps toward a civilian government " within a week or two "  --  and at the same time proceeding to use force against the demonstrators , was in line with American advice . The simultaneous effort both to reestablish order and to make a pledge to relieve the political pressures , is characteristic of United States policymakers and of President Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apply this two-sided policy , the local emphasis came down on the military side . His angry statements that Mayor Nguyen Van Man of Da Nang was a Communist and should be shot , his repeated charge that the various manifestations of revolt were " Communist , " suggested the pattern of a typical military government in today 's world , trying to deal with political forces that were complex , mixed with domestic radicals as well as Communists , and tending to blame its repressive measures on Communists exclusively . This pattern sent a shiver through the official world here as well as the critics of recent American policy in both the Dominican Republic and Vietnam . . First reactions here suggest far deeper concern among the various segments of opinion for and against the Johnson policy than any public statements are yet indicating .                     