@@702450

With the defeat of the Child Labor Amendment giving Congress " power to limit , regulate and prohibit the labor of persons under 18 years of age , " today written for the thirteenth time in the record of New York State 's Legislature , friends of the measure denied they were routed , declaring that the crushing adverse vote at Albany yesterday was " only the first skirmish in the battle to be waged for ratification . " Party lines split sharply over the issue in the long debate in the Assembly , where the decision has been pending since the upper house approved ratification last month , and the final roll call found 41 Democrats joined with 61 Republicans against the amendment and nine Democrats and 33 Republicans for it in a vote of 102 to 42 . A sequent motion to reconsider the vote was refused even more decisively by a vote of 105 to 38 . In the face of a trend which appears to relegate the question to the legislative shelf for another year , proponents of ratification were reorganizing their lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjourns . To obtain another vote now , a new resolution must be introduced , which would have to go back to the Senate for approval , where the Democratic leaders apparently were able to get it affirmed last month only by virtue of giving no notice of their intention to bring it up for a vote . The legislators also obviously had lost interest in the move for a popular referendum on the issue , and , indeed , in the light of the vote Mitcome in the lower house on the ratification resolution . ' which was sponsored by Assemblyman Philip M. Kleinfeld ( D ) of New York City , defeat likewise would have met the referendum proposal by Assemblyman Paul B. Mercier , Oneida County Democrat . Governor Lehman commented on the defeat with all the emphasis which has come to surround the issue in the Empire State , whose action was seen by opponents and proponents alike as having a powerful influence in the 13 other states where the amendment is under consideration . " I am deeply disappointed at the defeat of the child labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an overwhelming vote in Congress as a nonpartisan measure to protect the children of America against exploitation , and the then President was a Republican . Since then it has had strong endorsement from both Republican and Democratic presidents and other public officers . " I regret that the amendment did not receive in the Assembly the support of the members of the two parties which it received in the State Senate . Had it done so , It would , of course , have been easily ratified . " The record speaks for itself ' . The people of the state will form . their own judgment on that record . " Galleries Were Filled Debate on the resolution proceeded before filled galleries and took in most of the major points of current political controversy , not forgetting Moscow , President Roosevelt 's Supreme Court enlargement proposal or the Constitution . The amendment was denounced fur " sinister purpose , " as a " vital threat to every American home , " as placing religious liberty " in jeopardy , " as " imperiling " academic freedom , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denying even farm children the right to do chores . It was declared that several courts had ruled that " labor " meant " effort , either physical or mental , " which clearly spelled " education " into the provisions . It was argued that the South ignored the Fourteenth Amendment " every election day , " and suggested that if President Roosevelt and Governor Lehman were sincere in their support of the amendment , they " ought to have Vice-President Garner and Speaker Bankhead of Texas and Alabama , respectively , get the amendment ratified in their states . " The vesting of such broad powers In the Congress was deplored since " no one can calculate what Congress might do under the amendment . " Assemblyman Layrens M. Hamilton , Rockland Republican , opened the debate for the opposition with the statement that child labor was " only indirectly concerned In a bill which practically hands Congiess a blank check . " Got News in Moscow It was futile to argue that Congress would not make use of the unlimited power the amendment would hand to it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all suggestions to amend Its wording . He recalled that Senator William H. King ( D ) of Utah had first heard of the amendment when visiting Moscow in 1923 where Soviet leaders told him the United States was " on the way to taking over the children . " " I do not accuse all those who favor the amendment of being communists or socialists merely because all communists and socialists favor the amendment , " ho continued , " but I do claim that , far beyond the innocent and plausible purpose of many sincere people , there is a definitely sinister purpose which would be possible under the amendment as framed ? . " Those who favor the amendment will not realize  --  will not believe  --  that in seeking to free children from one form of slavery they may well be delivering these same children and generations yet unborn to the same kind of controlled , regimented , legal slavery that children in other parts of the world are subjected to . " This was characterized as " emotional prejudice " by Assemblyman Dutton S. Peterson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was for the bill , he had " no red beard " and did " not hail from Moscow . " Must Be , Stamped Out , He Says The child employment evil must be stamped out , he said , adding that even in New York , children were working in the pea fields for three cents an hour . Assemblyman Irwin Steingut ( D ) of New York City and minority leader , summed up for the proponents with the declaration that the amendment was intended " only to aid millions of unfortunate , helpless children of today . " Supreme Court decisions had thrice established , he said , that labor did not embrace education , making it certain that no element of invasion of the home was involved , Assemblyman Irving M. Ives ( R ) of Chenango , majority leader , asserted , on the other hand , that the dictionary defined labor as " mental exertion " and that , as far as Supreme Court rulings were concerned , in the light of the Roosevelt plan to " pack " that tribunal , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " If we are to have a Supreme Court acthig as the mouthpiece of one person , " he continued , " then the Constitution becomes the will of that one person . Add this proposed amendment to our Federal Constitution , and we are faced with a combination of circumstances wherein the wildest possibilities of our imaginations may become lean-ties . " Meanwhile , the National Child Labor Committee , ascribing the adverse vote to the combined forces of the Roman Catholic Church and reactionary economic organizations , voiced confidence that the Assembly would reconsider its stand before adjournment .                     