@@734050

Chicago Tribune Press Service MEXICO CITY  --  President Carter , who hopes to soothe Mexicans ' feelings and clear the way for an oil deal , received a restrained reception Wednesday and an unusual public lecture from Mexican President Jose Lopez Portillo , who warned against deceit poisoning U.S.-Mexican relations . Beyond an official sort of pep rally and formal reception at the Mexico City airport , Mexicans turned out in sparse crowds for Carter in comparison with the tumultuous welcomes they gave Presidents John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson when U.S.-Mexican relations were warmer . During a luncheon toast , Lopez Portillo departed from the usual diplomatic language of such occasions to warn that between neighbors , " surprise moves " and " sudden deceit " or abuse are poisonous fruits that sooner or later have a reverse effect . THE MEXICAN president 's remark about " sudden deceit " ? strong language for such an affair  --  appeared aimed at U.S. Energy Secretary James Schlesinger 's sudden cancellation last year of a proposed sale of Mexican natural gas to American firms across the border . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexican feelings that the big neighbor to the north acted arrogantly in its relations with Mexico . In his toast , Lopez Portil:o also stressed that U.S.-Mexican relations could still go either way  --  for the better or for the worse . " I believe we also know that we have not yet put our friendship to the test , since we have yet to decide what we are willing to make of our relationship . " " WE CAN VIEW it as a problem , " he added . " Or - we can think of it as a conflict . In the first case , there are solutions which will be welcomed by our friends ; in the second , confrontation which would give joy to our enemy . " Carter , whose smile disappeared at the Mexican 's lecture , responded by noting that " though our two countries may not agree with each other in every particular , there is a sense of shared concern . " Carter also tried a joke . He observed that he was a jogger who had " first acquired my habit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middle of a folk-dancing festival , " Carter went on , " I discovered I was afflicted with Montezuma 's revenge . " Carter 's wife , Rosalynn , covered her face in embarrassment as her husband went into his Montezuma 's revenge joke . CARTER , BONING up on Spanish in order to address Mexicans in their native tongue , made no mention.of oil or natural gas in his arrival statement . underlining American efforts to avoid bruising Mexican public opinion further by appearing to be showing sudden interest in Mexico only because of its oil . But the troubles in Iran were on Carter 's mind as he arrived in Mexico City , where a crowd of 3.000 to 4,000 in grandstands welcomed him with music , pom- ? CoaSbned ' an page 5 , col. 3 Carter gets lecture // pons , and a 21-gun salute . The President , according to press secretary Jody Powell , " certainly considered " delaying his departure when he learned from national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski that Iranian revolutionaries had taken over the U.S. Embassy in Tehran after a firefight . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceremonial appearances , Carter and President Lopez Portillo traded diplomatic generalities at the airport , stressing the need for American-Mexican friendship but acknowledging the existence of problems . " I am completely certain that the most important thing of all is good will and a good disposition in order to take care of our problems : A will to agree , and perhaps the most important will of all , the will to be friends , which means reciprocal respect and dignity in our dealings , " said Lopez Portillo.                     