@@689550

It is regarded here as significant that Chinese business and industrial interests do not expect any great benefits to_the come from the consortium . Capital is being and will continue to be sought abroad for manufacturing and other private industrial.projeas . American interests here express the belief that the consortium is impractical and that it will never be made to function along the lines originally intended . Its machinery is too cumbersome to be effective . In the meantime efforts are being made to attract American capital to China . Arthur L. Burton , chief engineer of the PaoCheng Cotton Mills of Shanghai , who returned from a trip to the United States recently , made the statement that one industrial enterprise which calls for an : nvestment of about $15,000,000 gold is now being promoted and that most of this money has already been subscribed in Boston . DIFFICULTIES OVERCOME Concluding his account of the new consortium , G. Pardons , adviser to the Chinese government , said : " In the course of the exchange of diplomatic correspondence between the powers concerned , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its difficulties in adopting the general formula contained in the American proposition . Both the British and French governments took exception to the provision of exclusive support . For the French , there was the Banque Industrial de Chine , a bank staying outside the French group , which held important agreements and options amounting to 2,250,000,000 francs . In the case of Great Britain , the government was reluctant to give up the Paris resolution of the old consortium of September , 1913 , regarding railway ' and industrial loans , and British institutions not included in the British group but possessing important interests in China were indeed many " Both , however , gave way to a new formula suggested by the American government , by which each government was to pledge to the support of its respective national group rather than to the consortium collectively ? but , ' hi the event of competition in the obtaining of any specific loan contract , the collective support of the diplomatic representatives in Peking of the four governments will be assured to the consortium for the purposes of obtaining such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &; Shanghai Bank that it was prepared to support the British group , but could not give them a monopoly of official support . JAPAN 'S CLAIMS " The greatest difficult ' came from the Japanese aide . Acting under instructions from their principals , the Japanese financial delegates in Paris informed their colleagues , on June 16 , 1919 , that ' all rights and options held by Japan in Manchuria and Mongolia , where Japan has special interests , should be excluded from the arrangements for pooling provided for in the proposed agreement ' because of ' the very special relations which Japan enjoys geographically and historically with the regions referred to and which have been recognized by Great Britain , the United States , France and Russia on many occasions . ' ' Manchuria ' and ' Mongolia ' were afterward altered by an official note into ' South Manchuria ' and ' Eastern Inner Mongolia . ' The American and British governments objected to the Japanese claim , thinking that it ' would constitute a direct negation of the principle on which the consortium is based , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of other nations and thus perpetuate the very difficulties which the consortium is designed to obviate . ' JAPANESE SATISFIED " After much exchange of diplomatic correspondence and the special mission to Japan of T. W. Lamont on behalf of the American , British and French groups , the Japanese withdrew their original proposition of reservations , being satisfied with the general assurance that ' the Japanese government need have no reason to apprehend that the consortium would direct any activities affecting the security of the economic life and national defence of Japan and that the Japanese government can firmly rely on the good faith of the powers concerned to refuse to countenance any operation inimical to such interests . ' " The Chinese government was informed of the formation of the new consortium on September 28 , 1920 , and the inter-group agreement was definitely signed on October 15 by the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. , the Banque de I'Indo-Chine , the Yokohama Specie Bank and the American group , represented by J. P. Morgan &; Co. , Kuhn , Lceb &; Co. , the National City Bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Savings Bank , Chase National Bank and Lee , Higginson &; Co . Chinese bankers will not be shut out by the consortium , but the cooperation of the Chinese hankers with the consortium group in the furnishing of money in large amounts to the Chinese government will be welcome , ' was declared by Frederick W. Stevens , representative in Peking of the American group and other members of the consortium . "                     