@@699650

The letter of President Roosevelt to the governors of oil states was followed Tuesday by an order by the Corporation Commission of Oklahoma closing down the big Oklahoma City oil field . This action , however , was apart from the suggestions of the President , who declared in his letter that he lacked authority to declare or request a moratorium on production , although urging cooperation between the oil statesIn appropriate action to meet the emergency . Effective 7 a. rn April 5 , an order has been . issued by the Oklahoma Corporation Commission shutting down wells in Oklahoma City oil field excepting those making more than 10 , ' , water . The wells v. , 11 be shut down until potentials are taken , and the general understanding is that this will not be done until a new proration bill pending in the legislature is passed Oil-state go .. c rnors apparently favored the President 's suggestions for legislation to bar illegal or " hot " oil and the products thereof from interstate commerce and for divorcement of pipe lines in interstate commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a telegram from The Wall Street Journal . Governor Arthur Seligman of New Mexico wired : " I am awaiting a report from New Mexico conferees and a study of President Roosevelt 's proposal . I do not understand that the President fits ors closing of the flush pools in New Mexico . We have no crude oil in storage , nor have we overproduced . I can see no reason why New Mexico should give up 500,000 barrels of production royalty and taxes to permit others ' to withdraw crude from storage and bring in foreign oil to replace our loss . In general I favor the President 's suggestion . especially the divorcing of pipe lines and prohibiting transportation of oil illegally produced - Ames Sees Benefits C B. Ames . president of the American Petroleum Institute , states that if the projects recommended in the letter of President Roosevelt to the governors of 17 oil states are carried out , they will benefit the industry . " The conservation of our oil resources , " says Mr. Ames . " is a problem which entirely disregards boundaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of production , it is necessary , therefore . if we are to have a sound program , for the principal oil-producing states to treat each other in a neighborly way and cooperate toward the aceopplisbment of the common purpose . " If the governors of these states and their I regulatory bodies comply with the President 's request to cooperate , as they doubtless will , we can look forward with confidence to greater progress in the conservation movement . " ' Mr. Ames said the President 's statement that he is prepared to recommend to Congress legislation prohibiting transportation of illegal oil in interstate and foreign commerce will he of enormous value in East Texas pool , if the suggestion is promptly adopted by Congress . The President 's instructions to tax-collecting agencies of the government to cooperate with the states and with the law-abiding elements in the industry in respect of gasoline and pipe-line tax enforcement will be of great aid , Mr. Ames said . Plans Oil State Meeting OKLAHOMA CITY  --  On the suggestion of Governor Landon of Kansas , Governor Murray is planning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Kansas and Oklahoma , and other representatives of states , to adopt a. uniform policy in regard to oil . The governors would attempt to agree on uniform regulations for control of the oil industry in their states . Governor Murray will suggest Wichita Falls , Tex .. as the meeting place . The Oklahoma governor stated that President Roosevelt 's suggestion in regard to prohibition of interstate shipments of illegally produced oil and divorcement of pipe line companies engaged in interstate operations from j other phases of the industry are good . How- ever , he said , they do not go far enough , for the reasons that some states have no laws to cover the situation and some producers of illegal oil confine their operations to one state and would not be reached by federal law . In reply to President Roosevelt . Governor Murray is stating that on the question of public control of the industry the ma3ors and ' nide ' pendents are not found lined up against each other , but there as one clear demarcation running through mayor intermediate and independj ent producers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fair , uniform regulation in all states , falling on all alike , and on the other side are those making a pretense of wanting uniform regulation . but in reality striving for ! laws they will he able to evade . Public officials can side only with producers wanting fair , um ; form regulation , Governor Murray states .                     