@@718450

The four days Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru spent in Washington mark a milestone in United States-Indian relations . The White House and the Indian Embassy term the Nehru-Eisenhower talks a " success " and " a happy event . " This is despite the fact that neither the President nor the Prime Minister made any promises , commitments , agreements , or deals . In perhaps the shortest communique ever to conclude a top-level talk of this kind Messrs . Eisenhower and Nehru forecast that , their meeting would speed achievement of " peaceful and friendly relations among all nations of the world . " As Mr. Nehru left for New York , the White House announced : " The Prime Minister and the President are convinced that the greater understanding of their respective policies reached at these talks will facilitate the constant efforts of India . and the United States toward achievement of peaceful and friendly intercourse among nations in accordance with the principles of the United Nations . " It already is apparent that this visit of the Indian Prime Minister is going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1949 . Time  --  and world events have both mellowed Mr. Nehru and altered American policy . Then the emphasis was on formality ; this time it was on informality . Then the sensitive Indian Prime Minister saw condescension or ostentation in practically every American effort to entertain him . On this visit there was none of that strain on both sides to observe protocol and dramatize the meeting of East and West . Friendliness Reigns Mr. Nehru was definitely more friendly , more appreciative of Washington 's policies throughout the world than in 3949 ; but the United States , in the person of President Eisenhower , was more understanding of India 's nonalignment ( or neutrality , a description Mr. Nehru shuns ) than in the past . In fact , the Indian Prime Minister suggested with a twinkle in his eyes that perhaps the President also as a result of these talks was more appreciative of India 's nonalignment policy than ever before . It was one of his major accomplishments , in fact , according to him , that the United States today recognizes some merit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cold war and in consequence its ability to serve- as - intermediary among world powers , It is doubtful that the Indian . Prime Minister ever put in a more full and fruitful four days than those just ended in Washington . He talked intimately , privately , and frankly with the President not only for some 12 hours at Gettysburg , but for another couple of hours in Washington . He saw Secretary of State John Foster Dulles twice and Harold E. Stassen , Special Assistant to the President on Disarmament , once . He met with the Ambassadors of Syria and Israel . He cheerfully , patiently , and courteously took on the Washington press corps in an early-morning press conference that was as successful an exhibition of the art of diplomatic repartee as Washington can recall , Understanding Widened He did not disclose much that was new , but he clarified much that has been obscure in India 's attitudes and policies . He publicly acknowledged the iniquity of Soviet actions in Hungary without denouncing the Kremlin di-redly . He was modest , polite , gracious , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a novel respect in both their questions and their stories . Mr. Nehru flew to New York this morning . At the airport to bid him good-by were Undersecretary of State Herbert Hoover , Jr. , and a number of other United States officials , the Associated Press reports . " I know that the spirit of understanding . will be increased as a result of your visit , " Mr. Hoover told the Indian Prime Minister . In response , Mr. Nehru said : " I entirely agree with you , sir , that this visit of mine will 1 result in closer bonds of friendship and understanding  --  those bonds of the mind which are far closer than any other bonds . " Mr. Nehru expressed gratitude to Mr. Eisenhower , Secretary of State Dulles , and others with whom lie talked . " It hardly seems possible that I came here only four days ago , " Mr. Nehru said . " I have done so much and met so many people ; and above all , met such friendship and cordiality , that my mind is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obvious that Mr. Nehru is impressed with the signs of ferment within the Soviet satellites and even the U.S.S.R. itself . And he was perhaps as persuasive and eloquent on this point as any  --  urging the United States to help the Soviet Union through the convulsive evolution it now is experiencing . On this issue he found an unsuspected ally in . Secretary Dulles , whose " brinkmanship " and talk of " massive retaliation " have frightened when they have not dismayed Mr. Nehru in the past . This week at his press conference , Mr. Dulles figuratively pleaded with the Soviets to treat their satellites decently , give them elementary freedom and independent:cc , and indicated that Washington would be more , than happy then to reconsider its security position in Europe . Not since the informal wartime talks between President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill has there been such personal diplomacy on display here in Washington . And despite the lack of any agreements , commitments , promises , or pacts , these four days of quiet . informal , exploratory , and extensive talks between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history books as a turning point in world affairs . Communiqu6 issued : Page 4                     