@@743650

Bishop LITTLEJOHN , who lately went to England to deliver the annual course of sermons before the University of Cambridge , is evidently having no holiday trip . In addition to preaching three sermons before the ' university , he has already preached in the Lincoln Cathedral and also before the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts . The latter sermon , delivered at Lincoln on Nov. 8 , is the only one of which a full report has as yet been received on this side of the Atlantic . No American churchman , whatever may be his party affiliations , can read it without being grateful to the Bishop for the admirable way , m which he has illustrated and sustained the reputation of the American pulpit , and ao American , whether churchman or ' unbeiiever , can feel otherwise than proud that the intellect ? and culture of America have been so worthily represented by Dr. LITTLEJOHN . The sermon , which was mainly a sketch of the history , position , and prospects of the American branch of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clergymen appear to have of the tendency of American life and civilization in relation to religion . The Bishop pointed out that democracy not only tends to loosen the restraints of firm and orderly civil government , but to weaken respect for authority in matters of Church government Ind creed . In the words of Dr. LITTLEJOHN , " the democratic idea elevates the inlividual more and more above the sway of organic life and incorporated discipline as ? well in the Church as in the State , " and " by necessary consequence it leads the individual first to depreciate more and more , and finally to forsake , as the foe of his liberty , all that is traditional , and , by cathoic consent , authoritative in the faith , Ivorship , and order of the historic Church . " No 3areful observer can doubt the accuracy of skis assertion . Not only has the influence of democratic ideas hindered for many years the progress of the Anglican Church in this country , but the same influence is steadily disintegrating the Protestant sects . We see this in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the demand , met in every denomination , for new and less rigid conditions of church membership . Men have not only refused to accept the claims of Churches which profess to teach by authority , but they are rejecting the creeds which have been made in part as protests against the catholic idea . The same spirit ' which grudges obedience to law-makers ou the ground that " every man is as good as every other man , " refuses to accept the interpretation of the Bible made by this or that Protestant reformer . The drift of the time is toward religious anarchy , and the Church which stands as the most conspicuous bulwark against this threatened anarchy can not expect to win supporters when even the looser discipline of the sects is rejected . Bishop LITTLEJOHN not only clearly sees the modern tendency away from all ecclesiastical authority , but he also perceives the inevitable reaction which must sooner or later manifest itself . Already it is the . Anglican ' Church to which men of thought and . culture turn as with mature years they yearn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to infallibility in the sense in which the Roman Church claims to be infallible , she represents more than any Protestant Church that which is orderly , fixed , and stable . She claims the possession of a ministry whose authority is derived from a ' higher source than the votes of pew-holders . She demands obedience to what she proclaims to be the truth , because it is the catholic faith , of which she is the witness , and not because it may be arrived at by the processes of the mathematician , the chemist , or the anatomist . Her position challenges the attention and wins the approval of those who have found that to build a Church on the theory that every man is to be his own infallible Pope is a more hopeless undertaking than it would have been to finish the Tower of Babel after the builders were smitten with " independency " of speech . The Church which Bishop LITTLEJOHN represents is now drawing to itself time best thought and culture of the community , and there is certainly every reason to believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to what is , after all , the Church of their ancestors , whether their grandfathers left it for Puritanism , or their fathers wandered still further into the colder regions of* New-England Unitarianism . Of course , ardent Presbyterians and Methodists will not coincide with the Bishop either in his analyses of the hindrances in the way of his Church in this country or in his expectations as to the future . There can , however , be but one opinion as to the ability and eloquence of his sermon at Lincoln , and it will be read with pleasure even by those who decline to accept its reasoning or its conclusions . 