@@703850

Washington yesterday concluded with Brazil a trade and credit agreement which provides for financing Brazilian purchases here . Volume of orders is not likely to be large at first . Immediate result probably being restoration of free exchange and trade relations , thus paving way for future trade expansion . Domestic makers of rail equipment , motor trucks , etc .. are expected to benefit from the agreement . Bond and commodity markets yesterday responded favorably to announcement of the pact . As the result of a commercial and financial agreement consummated yesterday between Brazil and the United States , domestic manufacturers of railroad equipment , machinery and machine tools and the automobile industry are expected to benefit . The agreement Is designed to facilitate trade between the two nations over a long time period as well as permit transfer of interest and dividends on American investments in Brazil . Negotiations looking to the purchase of 28 locomotives and 1.000 freight cars costing around $6,000.000 underway last summer are likely to be renewed as result of the agreement . Observers also foresaw weakening of Germany 's position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large barter trade with Brazil in recent years which has not proven entirely satisfactory to the latter country , particularly since Germany has followed the policy of purchasing larger amounts of coffee than she could use and dumping the excess on world markets in competition with Brazil . Meanwhile , bond and commodity markets responded favorably yesterday to announcement of the agreement . Brazilian bonds moved up briskly , closing as much as 31s points above lows for the day , while coffee futures were up 7 to 10 points . Other Countries May Follow ' Thp belief that Brazil 's move toward resumption of servidr. ? , , n its ' dollar debt may lead some of the other South American defaulting nations to follow the same route was expressed in Wall Street yesterday . While the Washington announcement failed to indicate how much the Brazilian service will amount to under the " temporary arrangement , the hope was expressed by some that the payments would approximate the original Aranha agreement figures of 1934. but of course this remains to be seen . The Foreign Bondholders ' Protective Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1934 was supposed to have been in effect until March 1 , 1938 , but in the fall of 1937 the word came from Rio that remittances for service of external debt were suspended pending negotiation of new agreements . This suspension was not to include the obligations assumed for the liquidation of commercial arrears . The Brazilian decree of 1934 which grew out of the Aranha plan announced that foreign exchange would be supplied to respective debtors for payment of interest on external obligations at various indicated percentages of the face amount of the respective coupons . Some of these payments were at 35% , some 50% and other percentages of the face amounts . The feeling in some quarters is that the way is paved for further negotiations on certain other Latin American defaults as a result of yesterday 's development . Brazil 's Dollar Debt Brazil 's dollar debt consists of one funding loan and four issues of the United States of Brazil and fractional certificates , 17 Issues of nine individual states , and nine issues of three municipalities totalling in all $357,071,745 . The Brazilian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all Brazil 's federal , state and municipal external loans in eight grades . For each grade percentages of the interest and sinking fund for the service of these loans were provided which would be permitted to be transferred abroad . But in November , 1937 , President Vargas announced that service on Brazil 's external debt would be temporarily suspended . Interest and sinking fund on most Brazilian issues originally went into default in 1931 and 1932 . In addition to spurring demand for railway equipment . development of Brazil 's productive facilities will probably entail purchase of tractors. trucks and farming equipment since the Brazilian economy is primarily agricultural . Perhaps the greatest field for long term expansion is in production of rubber . Many years ago wild rubber trees in the Amazon valley were the principal source of rubber , but output has declined to negligible proportions in the last 30 years as plantations were developed in the middle east . More recently Ford Motor Co. has experimented with rubber plantations in Brazil . Oil was discovered in the State of Bahia. a few weeks ago and may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not vitally dependent upon coal since she has enormous amounts of water power , but ahe does need oil for automobiles and airplanes and the Bahia. discovery is considered in Brazil to mean a great deal to the economic growth of the country . Brazil has long been one of our best customers in South America . In 1938 exports to Brazil totaled $61,955,062 , being exceeded only by exports to Argentina of *86.772.226 . Imports from Brazil last year amounted to *97,037,423 , against $40,707,228 from Argentina .                     