@@698850

The less there is Abundance to say in partisan of speeches this year , Keynoters. the greater the number of orators volunteering to say it . In the Democratic party , the dispute about who shall sound the keynote is , of course , tied up with the question who shall be the temporary chairman and who the permanent . Though that controversy remains undetermined , the preparation of keynote speeches goes merrily on . The sudden decision of the Roosevelt managers not to accept Mr. SHOUSE as permanent chairman , though he was " commended " for that position by the National Democratic Committee , seems partly to have been caused by the report that Mr. SHOUSID had already composed a keynote speech , despite the fact that it is not customary for the permanent chairman to make one . But will it be possible to condemn him to suffer from a suppressed speech ? Might he not rise as a delegate from Kansas , if not chairman , to cleanse his bosom of the perilous stuff ? A muzzled keynoter is almost a contradiction in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. SHOUSE left to " die with all his music in him . " The New York City fire For record for 1931 was fairly Fewer good , all things considered . Fires . But there is still plenty of room for improvement , as the Merchants ' Association points out in its latest appeal for fire prevention . While the number of fires per capita decreased considerably last year , 31,000 is still a high total , and 815,000,006 worth of damage represents a loss to the community which is doubly difficult to sustain in times of depression . " Let us not forget also that every fire loss tends to increase the premium which both the business owner and the house owner must pay for insurance , " says the association 's statement , " and that the interruption and destruction of business enterprises by fire involves losses which Can not be covered by insurance . " Secretary LAMONT , Governor ROOSEVELT and Mayor WALKER have appealed to the public to make a special effort this year to abate fire waste . It is a campaign worth every one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . Five years ago , Power GEoRGES CLAUDE , a . From distinguished physTropic Waters . icist , described before the Fr enc h Academy of Sciences a process " capable of taking from the sea the energy of ten Niagaras " and thus converting " wildernesses Into populous communities " Having made a fortune out of synthetic ammonia , liquid air , acetone and the neon lights used for advertising , he was able to experiment on a grand scale . The plant that he built at Matanzas , Cuba , utilized the difference in temperature between the surface water and that at a depth of about 2,000 feet to drive a small engine . Water can be made to boil at room temperature if we remove the air that presses upon it . CLAUDE created a vacuum to make his surface sea water boil by cooling the exhaust of his engine with cold water from the depths . Steam can thus be made to shrink into drops , but not the air which it may contain . In power houses , vacuum pumps are installed to draw the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar measure . But when we - are informed that 8 per cent of the total energy generated by a tropical sea-water plant is thus utilized we pause . The ratio is too high . Besides , CLAUDE must run other auxiliaries , such as pumps which lift water both from the surface and the depths and which must also be operated by the plant . The amount of available energy left must be almost negligible . Grown-up symbols Interpreted are so taken for grantby that no one takes a Child . the trouble to explain them to children . It seems that every one must know what the ordinary abbreviations mean , and the elders are so used to them that they assume children are born with the knowledge of W. for West , F. 0 . B. or the signs for dollars and cents . Some one who gets up general knowledge tests for children of various age groups included in one for 6-year-olds a question on abbreviations : " If your mother is shopping and finds she has left her purse at home , she may ask the shopkeeper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these initials mean ? " A little boy whose earnestness is vouched for by The Manchester Guardian Weekly answered seriously : " Care of Daddy . " That reply is close enough to the accurate answer to satisfy any parent . If all children pick up the essential meaning of abbreviations so well , they need not bother with the actual words signified.                     