@@702150

City Hall split into two warring camps yesterday when the Board of Aldermen , resenting what they considered unwarranted reflections by Mayor La Guardia on their honesty , refused to accede to the purchase of about $1,000,000 of new snow-fighting equipment . The Mayor appeared before the board to urge its approval of the purchase of eighty-five Snogo machines at a unit cost of $11,250 , delivered in New York . In arguing for the purchase without competitive bidding he read to the Aldermen parts of a conversation between A. Reginald von Keller , Lawrence Timen and Walter Klauer , manufacturer of the equipment . Von Keller , according to the conversation recorded by New York detectives , told Mr. Klauer that unless he received a fee the Klauer firm would never sell equipment to New York City . Von Keller and Timen are on their way back to Dubuque , Iowa , scene of the conversation , for arraignment and trial for the alleged attempt at fixing . Mr. Klauer cooperated with the authorities fn having them arrested . Sullivan Is Amazed After listening to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Timothy J. Sullivan said : " I have been connected with the board for more than ten years , and never in that time has such a request come before us . If we approve it , somebody is in . If we dis- approve it , somebody is in . We are hanged either way . " Alderman Joseph E. Kinsley said the Mayor 's attitude represented " trial by fury , not by jury . " " I am told two so-called crooks are in a position to deliver my vote , " he went on . " I am also told that this is our responsibility , Can you beat that ? Why come here and try to stampede us by calling us crooks ? If Tammany attempted to put over such a contract , some one would go to jail . Connolly went to jail in Queens because he used Ratented sewer pipe . And here we have another patented article . " Minority Leader Thomas J. Curran was bitter at the Mayor 's attitude . " Who would expect logic from the Mayor ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because these two chiselers could not buy members of this board , we should reject the resolution . I would expect the Mayor to come in here with dispassionate arguments , not tirades of abuse . The implication is that if you came in here to vote no , and not vote yes , you did so because the Mayor accused you of being grafters . " Vote Is 31 to 20 On the vote , thirty-one members voted for the purchase and twenty opposed it . For approval , the measure required forty-nine affirmative votes . With only fifty-one of the sixty-three members present , a slight margin of opposition was enough to defeat the purchase . Commissioner Carey , who had argued long and fervently for the machines , was disheartened at the result of the vote . He said he did not know what steps he could take . next , and was considering the possibility of ordering the machines anyway . Such a step , he conceded , might easily be blocked by a taxpayers ' suit . Since no member of the board had moved for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the chance of keeping the matter on the board 's calendar for ' its next meeting vanished . Informed of the action at the Polo Grounds , Mayor La Guardia said : " The facts are : " Von Keller stated that unless $75,000 was paid to him , the Board of Aldermen would not grant permission to purchase this special snow equipment . " The money was not paid . " The Board of Aldermen did not grant permission to purchase the equipment . " Mr. Sullivan said he would draw no inference or conclusion from the Mayor 's remarks , adding that the Mayor could do that if he liked . Mayor Held in " Bad Taste " " When addressing the Board of Aldermen at its meeting today , " he said , " the Mayor stated that he had confidence in its integrity and believed in its honesty . A number of members voted against the resolution because of the Mayor 's address , which they considered in bad taste and insinuating . Has the Mayor changed his views on the integrity and honesty of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " , His last sentence summarized the attitude of those who blocked the purchase  --  namely , that the Mayor 's hints of dishonesty had been fully answered by the defeat of the resolution . Leaders of the Democratic majority deplored the Mayor 's choice of words , which they said had turned a number of potentially favorable votes into negative votes . They sympathized with Mr. Carey , who has been trying to get his new equipment since last June , only to run into one obstacle after another . Mayor " Ca n't Eat the Snow " In his address to the Aldermen , the Mayor said : " This Von Keller was not selling his services . He was selling you . You have heard the facts . If you do not act , the responsibility is yours . I ca n't eat that snow and ice next Winter  --  and I ca n't go through another Winter like last Winter . I still have confidence in the Board of Aldermen . " Mr. Carey . took up the charge that the Aldermen could be " delivered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oh , well , I can walk out of this room and make the same statement , " he said . " Anybody can do it , and it means nothing . " Corporation Counsel Paul Windels delivered an opinion to the board declaring that it clearly had power under the city charter to grant exemption from competitive bidding on a patented article such as the Snogo machine , when the article was the only one adapted to the city 's needs . After yesterday 's meeting members of the Board of Aldermen agreed that they could take no further action on the purchase . Since the City Charter requires their assent to the purchase , it . appeared that the Mayor and Mr. Carey had reached an insurmountable obstacle . Mr. Carey said he would continue to seek a way in which the city could legally buy the equipment , but added that he could not see how that result could be reached .                     