@@732150

Patricia Hearst was denied release on bond Friday by an unyielding judge who called her a " flight risk " and firmly stated that he believes no amo'int of money would keep the heiress from running away again . Chief Federal Judge Oliver Carter dueled with Miss Hearst 's defense attorney for more than an hour before refusing to set a bond . " That 's the way it 's going to be , " Judge Carter declared , cutting off any further debate with Miss Hearst 's attorney , Terrence Kayo Hallinan , on the bond request for the woman who , upon being arrested Thursday , listed her occupation as " urban guerrilla . " RANDOLPH AND Catherine Hearst , In the courtroom for the proceedings , as was Miss Hearst , remained immobile as the judge 's words ended any hope of early release from jail . The decision shocked many San Franciscans , who for 24 hours had been cynically predicting that the daughter of the powerful publisher would be released on her signature or that her family would produce up to $500,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an adjoining courtroom , United States Magistrate Owen E. Woodruff Jr . appointed government-paid lawyers to represent William and Emily Ramie , Miss Hearst 's fellow troopers in the Symbionese Liberation Army . IN A THIRD hearing , Steve Soliah , accused of harboring Miss Hearst and fellow fugitive Wendy Yoshimura in an attic apartment for the final days before their arrests , was jailed by Woodruff . Soliah 's bond was set at $75,000 . The 27-year-old house-painter , who became the newest character in the bizarre cast of those associated with the SLA , allegedly rented the $180-a-month apartment on Sept. 7 for himself and the two women . Soliah was arrested as he returned to the apartment after Thursday 's raid there . Soliah is the brother of Kathleen Soliah , who has visited Miss Yoshimura 's boyfriend , William Brand t , who is serving time at Soledad Prison ? for possession of explosives . Miss Soliah spoke at the memorial service for Angela Atwood shortly after her death with five other SLA members in the fiery May 17 , 1974 , shootout with Los Angeles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moments after the arrival of her parents and many on the scene were surprised by her docile appearance . With her short , dark red hair , she bore little resemblance to the thousands of wanted posters which were nationally distributed since she apparently took an active role in the SLA . Wearing brown corduroy jean s , a striped jersey , and sunglasses , Miss Hearst stepped briskly into the courtroom and sat at a defense table , where she conferred with her attorney . Hainan argued during the hearing that Miss Hearst should not be denied bail despite " the problem of her long flight from justice . " He said that " this one strike against her " should not deprive Miss Hearst of her freedom . JUDGE CARTER did agree to hear additional motions on the bond matter for Miss Hearst , who is being held on 22 felony counts . Judge Carter told Miss Hearst , as she stood before him , that she is being held on " serious charges , as you well know . " U. S. Atty . James Browning argued that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she would again flee to avoid prosecution . He said , " No condition of release could assure Miss Hearst 's future appearance in court . " Browning also said that the discovery of a 38-caliber revolver in Miss Hearst 's purse at the time of her capture is further evidence that no condition of release would prevent " another long absence from justice . " Following the hearing , Miss Hearst and the Harrises were taken back to the San Mateo County Jail in Redwood City , 25 miles to the south , where they had spent their first night after capture Thursday . ? FBI OFFICIALS stressed that the capture was the product of solid Investigation , not luck , altho one agent familiar with the case said that it was not known in advance that Miss Hearst actually would be inside the residence raided by police and the FBI on Thursday . As the story began to emerge Friday , it appeared that the action was a combiconclusion Thursday with the capture of Miss Hearst , Miss Yoshimura , and the Harrises . Charles Bates , special agent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the four might have been living in San Francisco for as long as two weeks . lie said the FBI had been watching the house where the Harrises were caught for about two days . At the San Mateo jail where the Harris couple also were taken following arraignment , a woman inmate said thenewspaper heiress answered a question as to how she was caught by saying , " I wish to hell I knew . " " I said , ' It 's been a long time since we 've seen you , ' " Evelyn Broussard said . " And she said , ' I wish it had been longer . ' " " We were just sitting there and two policemen just came limo the door , " Mrs. Broussard quoted Miss Hearst as saying . Mrs. Broussard , 23 , who was being released on bail on a parole violation charge , said she talked with Miss Hearst while the latter was being booked .                     