@@728950

The President 's Commission on Campus Unrest issued its report on the Kent State shooting today . It blamed intolerable behavior by some students and " unnecessary , unwarranted and inexcusable " gunfire by National Guardsmen for the four deaths and nine woundings that occurred there . " The actions of some students were violent and criminal and those of some others were dangerous , reckless and irresponsible , " the report said . Share the Responsibility " Those who wreaked havoc on the town of Kent , those who burned the R. 0 . T. C. building , those who attacked and stoned the National Guardsmen , and all those who urged them on and applauded their deeds share the responsibility for the deaths and injuries of May 4 . " The report concluded : " The indiscriminate firing of rifles into a crowd of students and the deaths that followed were unnecessary , , unwarranted and inexcusable . " The 61 shots by 28 Guardsmen certainly can not be justified . " Second of 2 Reports The 152-page report , titled " The Kent State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued by the commission . In the other , the commission blamed police for the killing of two young blacks at Jackson State College May 15 . The commission also condemned students and other blacks for fueling tensions at the college . The report on Kent State says that the presence of the National Guard on the campus " appears to have been the main attraction and the main issue for most students who came to the May 4 rally . For students deeply opposed to the war , the Guard was ' a living symbol of the military system they distrusted . " For other students the Guard was an outsider on their campus prohibiting all their rallies , even peaceful ones , ordering them about and tear gassing them when they refused to obey . " However , the report said widespread student opposition to the Cambodian action and the resentment of the Guard were no justification for the " violent and irresponsible " actions of many students during the weekend before the shootings . Violence Not Justified " Violence by students on or off the campus can never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There can be no sanctuary or immunity from prosecution on the campus , " it said . The May 4 rally that resulted in the shooting of 13 students began peacefully , the commission said . The decision by the National Guard to disperse the rally " was a serious error , " according to the commission . Citing investigations by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Ohio State Highway Patrol , the commission said there was no evidence a sniper had fired at the Guardsmen.                     