@@716550

Party workers at the senatorial campaign headquarters of former Representative Clifford P. Case ( R ) of New Jersey are not quite sure these days whether they are battling mainly the Democrats , or a small noisy minority of their own Republican Party . " We should be going after Charley Howell ( Representative Charles R. Howell ( 0 ) from the Fourth District . Mr. Case 's opponent ) but 1 spend most of my time telling Republicans why they should Vote for their own candidate , " wailed one party stalwart . A weird campaign has in fact been under way in New Jersey e% en since a smattering of those right-wing Republicans , who think that " liberal Republican " Mr. Case is too liberal for them . started circulating far-fetched charges about Mr. Case and ' urged him to withdraw . ' These right-wingers ended up by proposing a write-in vote on the November ballots for the New Jersey coauthor of the Taft-Bartley Law , former Representative Fred A. Bartley ( R ) . Experts Uncertain Not even the experts are quite sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Case , five tunes a representative , alwayc an effective vote getter. and a genuine GOP " egg head . ' Certainly the fracas has helped voters to forget about the recent Hoffman embezzlement charges , and the Bergen County scandals which so damaged the party a year ago . It also has placed Mr. Case in the national limelight . The other day five New York Democratic Party workers were condescendingly condoling a New Jersey Repuolican about the interparty fight . He promptly challenged them to name the Democratic senatorial candidate in New Jersey : Not one of the five could recall Mr. Howell 's name . When Mr. Case was nonamated ? unopposed ? in the New Jersey primaries a few months back and resigned as head of the Ford Foundation 's Fund for the Republic to begin the campaign . things looked rosy indeed . He had won his Union County congressional seat in 1952 by a 55 , - 000 majority , running 10.000 votes ahead of President Eisenhower . Right Wing Got Busy In 1954 he was no more " liberal " ? anc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a record of not having sent a Democratic senator to Congress since 1936 . Cliff Case , the slender , quietly handsome . thoughtful candidate ? very much in the New Jersey ' Wilsonian liberal tradition ? looked lake a " shoo in . " Then the militant right-wingers got busy . On the night Mr. Case 's candidacy was launched , a " pink sheet " was passed around to the crowd accusing him of being pinker than the paper carrying the charge . Next James P. Selvage , member of a publicity firm , revived the charges which he had made ineffectually against Mr. Case when the latter was running in 1952 . Two committees launched into the fray ? the New Jersey branch of the Pro America Organization and the peculiarly styled Committee for a Stronger New Jersey Republican Party . Mr. Bartley . though at first refusing to consider himself a candidate , now has said " Sarkis is willM. " of voters want to write his name on the ballots and cut Mr. Case . Anti-McCarthy Stand Forthright Mr. Case had stirred things up by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elected he would vote to deprive the ' Wisconsin Junior senator of his committee chairmanships . But it is interesting that the first mimeographed sheet denouncing Mr. Case and urging his replacement on the grounds that he was too liberal and unrepresentative . was dated earlier than that  --  June 29 . To what extent do the attackers represent that segment of the GOP in New Jersey , which supported the late- Senator Robert A. Taft ( R ) of Ohio against General Eisenhower in 1952 ? There is a delicate question here . To what extent will sober right-wing Republicans , who would not endorse the sharp tactics of the strident minority in their part of the political spectrum , nevertheless follow the lead of the attackers ' These are the people - who believe the Parta : should be strildngly different from the Democrats . EisenhowenToes These are also the people who oppose much of the Eisenhower program as too liberal . if not socialistic , and who might hope by defeating Mr. Case , to prove that GOP liberalism can not win campaigns . Senator ' Taft polled 220.000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a-small portion of this total failed to vote or else wrote in the name of Mr. Hartley , this could do Mr. Case serious harm . Especially since a slight abatement in employment in New Jersey and better Democratic organization this year is now expected to boost the Democraticvote simultaneously . Strangely enough , one of the complaints against Mr. Case was that he voted to expand the public-housing program . Mr. Case was indeed voting in support of the same expanded housing which Senator Taft himself had fought hard to get enacted .                     