@@731750

A WEST SIDE druggist died Sunday night in Cook County Hospital of gunshot wounds as police investigated reports that a " hit man " hired by a group of doctors killed him and his partner . Robert Fields , 47 , of 1314 Monroe St. , Evanston , died less than five months after his partner was also gunned down outside the drugstore they owned at 738 W. Madison St. Chicago Police were investigating reports that a " hit man " also killed Fields ' partner , Albert Ziperstein , 61 , last Aug. 23 . A group of physicians , whose patients are mostly persons receiving public aid , allegedly ordered the shootings to destroy medical syndicates composed of druggists , clinic owners , and foreign doctors , according to police . THE MEDICAL syndicates reportedly were formed to exploit the state 's $1.6 billion public aid program by paying doctors to prescribe huge amounts of drugs and tests for welfare patients . Investigators uncovered the alleged doctors ' role in themurders while investigating Ziperstein 's death . He was shot seven times inside Haymarket Drugs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wounded Saturday outside the drugstore . A gunman shot him once in the abdomen and then fled toward the Loop in a taxi that had been parked in a nearby lot . Homicide investigators said in both shootings the gunman knew his victims . There were no attempts to rob them and nothing said to ' them before the shootings . FIELDS , WHO purchased drugs for the six stores owned by him and Ziperstein 's son , Eugene , formerly operated a pawn shop at 820 W. Madison St. He had a long arrest record ? but no convictions ? under the name of Robert Festenstein . Allho the authorities called him Fields , the telephone directory and other sources spelled his tamed Field . Shortly a f ter Ziperstein 's murder , Fields told a Tribune reporter that crime syndicate hoodlums showed an interest in becoming partners with members of the medical syndicotes . He ' denied any connection with the hoodlums . Fields told a reporter he wanted to sell his chain of stores to a factoring company  --  a medical billing company , many of which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stopped payments to the chain owned by Fields and Ziperstein last July . The two failed to attend a hearing scheduled by the department on the order and instead filed suit last month in Circuit Court opposing the cutoff . The slate department created a . s Iasi , . force to investigate aimses of public aid after The Tribune disclosed the findings of police investigating the murder of Ziperstein.                     