@@730450

Gen. John D. Ryan , the Air Force chief of staff , defended today his decision to punish only Lieut . Gen. John D. Lavelle for unauthorized bombing of North Vietnam and told Senate investigators that he " could n't guarantee " that such incidents " would n't hap- ; pen again . " General Ryan 's testimony was relayed to the press by Senator John C. Stennis , Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee , after the general 's lengthy closed-door appearance this morning . General Lavelle was relieved by General Ryan as commander of the Seventh Air Force last March and was later demoted on charges of ordering the raids and falsifying official poststrike reports . Senator Stennis , in his sharpest public statement since the hearings began a week ago , said that the testimony thus far made it " difficult " for him to understand why " something did n't happen that would have brought this out . " ' Something Must Be Done ' He said General Ryan 's testimony indicated that the officer was " genuinely concerned " about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " he could n't guarantee that it would n't happen again . " " Something must be done to follow through so that there could n't be any disobedience , any more failure to follow the rules of engagement , without // being noticed , " the Mississippi Democrat said . Senator Stennis said that General Ryan had testified that he knew of no orders of communications from civiliian or military officials that would have given General Lavelle reason to believe that between November , 1971 , and March , 1972 , he had permission for the more than 20 unauthorized raids that took place . The testimony of General Ryan made it clear , the Senator added , " that there 'd been no changes by noddings of the head , or suggestions in any way by anyone in authority . " General Lavelle testified before the committee last week that he had been under increasing pressure from high authorities to be " more aggressive " during the months in question . He Points to Air Force But Senator Stennis also indicated that whatever he had been told during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to believe that the Air Force , had ultimate responsibility for learning about the unauthorized raids and not the military headquarters in Saigon , The military commander in Saigon at the time of the Lavelle missions was Gen. Creighton W. Abrams , whose pending nomination as Army Chief of Staff has been held up by the hearings into the bombing of North Vietnam in the period before President Nixon at the end of March authorized the renewal of heavy raids . General Lavelle has testified that he believed both General Abrams and Adm . Thomas H. Moorer , Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , knew about and approved what he was doing . The officers have denied any knowledge of the unauthorized missions . Asked if General Abrams bore the responsibility for having failed to detect the Lavelle missions , Mr. Stennis responded : " I would n't say I thought he did . It seems to me that the proximity of thing was more in the Air Force 's knowledge  --  they were the more immediate party concerned , " " I would n't say they lost control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going on in the Air Force that they said they did n't know anything about . " A committee source said later that General Ryan 's testimony on the issue of command and control was " not overly impressive , " but Senator Stennis publicly praised his testimony as " credible and forthright . " General Ryan was reported to have been asked a number of questions about his decision to punish only General Lavelle in connection with the activity . Committee testimony last week indicated that hundreds of pilots and officers participated in almost daily falsification of classified reports . The officer , according to the testimony , included Col. Charles . Gabriel , commander of the 432d Tactical Reconnaissance Wing at Udorn Air Base in Thailand , which conducted the unauthorized missions , and his direct superior , Maj. Gen. Alton D , Slay , who was director of operations for the Seventh Air Force . Ryan Rules Out Others One senator said General Ryan testified that he decided that only General Lavelle  --  and no other officer beneath him in the chain of command  --  was responsible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have explained that the lower-ranking officers had no way of knowing whether General Lavelle 's orders stemmed from higher authorities . " It was just all unsatisfactory , " the senator said of that portion of General Ryan 's testimony . " Hell , maybe no one is responsible , " the senator added disgustedly . Senator Stennis and two other members of the committee plan to fly to Denver early tomorrow to question General Slay , who is recuperating from minor surgery at Fitzsimmons Air Force Hospital there . General Slay was named by witnesses last week as the officer who directly ordered that combat reports be falsified . His testimony is expected to be crucial to General Lavelle 's contention that higher commands were aware of what was going on .                     