@@698250

The Foreign Office made it plain today that Chancellor Bruening , acting on the suggestion of President Hoover and Premier Laval , will reopen the reparations question . " You may rest assured , " a Foreign Office spokesman said , " that Dr. Bruening will lose no time entering into diplomatic negotiations with the other powers . " From these negotiations it will become apparent how the initiative can best be taken and by whom . The Chancellor still believes an international conference is the best means . " Initiative Left to Europe . This announcement was the official German reaction to the recommendation of President Hoover and the French statesman , made in their joint statement issued Sunday evefling in Washington . Discussing the need for an agreement governing intergovernmental obligations at the conclusion of the Hoover debt holiday year , they declared " the initiative in this matter should be taken at an early date by the European powers principally concerned ? * Germany at first was not inclined to read in the Hoover-Laval statement any expectation that the next move was to come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , quickly brought home to German statesmen that American public opinion apparently expected action at this end . " Not that we have any hesitation to take the initiative per se , " the Foreign Office spokesman said . " But the Washington communique refers the problem of reparations and war debts to Europe . Now , Germany can do nothing about raising the . war debt question and as to reparations we are assured our creditors are just as much interested in what shall follow the Hoover moratorium as we are . " Government Not Disappointed . The spokesman asserted the government wholly disagreed with the gloomy views some newspapers are expressing concerning the results of the Washington meeting . " We know that America retains her warm interest in us and do not fear that she will let Europe stew in its own juice , " the Foreign Office representative said . Germans in responsible positions are genuinely glad that Mr. Hoover was able to learn the French attitude at first hand . The impending Washington visit of Dino Grandi , Italian Foreign Minister , therefore assumes even greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoover the latest information about Germany , much as Prime Minister of Britain was able to tell Secretary of the Treasury Mellon of Germany 's plight after the Anglo-German conference last June at Chequers . Signor Grandi , now in Berlin , is learning at first hand of the state of affairs in Germany First Step Called Problem . The attitude of the industrialist newspaper Allgemeine Zeitung was typical of German newspaper comment on the point developed at Washington that the initiative for a new agreement after the expiration of the Hoover moratorium must come from Europe . " Is France or Germany to take the first step ? " the newspaper asked . " From a German standpoint this can not be answered off-hand . " If Germany does anything she can only declare it is unthinkable that she can , after July 1 , 1932 , resume any reparation payments whatsoever . " There is no getting away from the fact that all attempts to master the world depression are foredoomed to failure if money is forced to flow uphill , that is , from a sorely improverished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being jeopardized equally by his own surfeit of gold and by a lack of buying capacity on the part of his neighbors . " REICH STUD/ES SITUATION . German Officials See Reparations Linked to Debts . By GUIDO ENDER 'S . Special Cable to THE NEW YORK TIMES . BERLIN , Oct. ** President Hoover 's conference with Premier Laval failed to produce the desired clarification of paramount political problems , its benefits on the economic side were sufficiently positive to warrant the assumption that the United ' States still is determined to have a hand in the solution of the debts and reparations issues , and although no distinctive Franco-American accord was reached in the White House discussions their progress neverless forecasts the continuance of American cooperation in European financial and economic matters . In the absence of something more concrete than the contents of the Washington communiqu ? , official German opinion for the present confines itself to the foregoing deduction . It is observed that the formal communiqu ? must he regarded as a " framework " into which the picture must be gradually fitted . The outstanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be found in the unequivocal pledge for the maintenance of the gold standard , and that if M. Laval persuaded Mr. Hoover that any initiative for revision of the Young Plan must emanate from Germany he scored only an inconsequential tactical victory because the ways to prolongation of the Hoover holiday year and to extension of the agreement not to withdraw credits have been barricaded by their discussions . Foreign Minister Grandi of Italy , who is visiting Berlin , and Dr. Bruening will defer active consideration of the Hoover-Laval conversations until reports of the German diplomatic missions to Washington and Paris are at hand and the Chancellor has had an ? opportunity to study their international repercussions . Early Action Not Likely . It , was said the situation now does not suggest an early movement for a revision of reparations because reparations by common consent are now viewed as an integral part of interallied debts and therefore should come before a European diplomatic conference . Dr. Bruening 's aversion to any undertaking in the direction of a moratorium is cited as proof that the German Government is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign situation should unexpectedly compel it . Germany is now concerned in getting the Franco-German economic negotiations under way . They are scheduled to begin early in November . At the Foreign Office it was said that reports that Dr. Bruening might follow Signor Grandi to Washington were unfounded , because the Chancellor 's engagements preclude such an interruption of his domestic program . That President Hoover had slightly the best of the argument with the French Premier is conceded here . It is stressed that he successfully resisted French pressure for a security pact , retaining a free hand for the United States . The Centrist newspaper Germania finds that , concerning disarmament and security , the Washington conference has been " without result , because of the irreconcilable divergence of the French and American views , " and in defining these it attributes decisive importance to Senator Borah 's intervention , which it considers is " supported by an overwhelming majority of American public opinion . " In the matter of reparations and intergovernmental debts , Germania can not believe " the declarations of the communiqu ? represent the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they will not he interested in what form the readjustment of reparations before the expiration of the Hoover moratorium will be taken up . " In reaching an agreement on Franco-American financial questions , Germania says " France appears to have been guided by the realization that to continue her hoarding policy at America 's cost meant committing financial suicide . " Ta.gehlatt Sees Benefits . " Economically considered , the result was not unsatisfactory , " says the Tageblatt , " inasmuch as it has settled Franco-American financial issues ; the world has the strongest interest in seeing the world 's greatest market spared a catastrophe such as European countries have had to suffer , and if conditions in the United States can now be bettered or at least stabilized , the repercussions on world economy can not be overestimated . " The Socialist Vorwaerts regards the results of the conference as worthless and says the necessity for FrancoGerman rapprochement was thereby intensified . The Boersen Courier can not see anything favorable to Germany except " the absence of an explicit reference to the Young plan , which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least across the ocean , and has not wholly destroyed the hope of America 's continued good-will . " To the Vossische Zeitung the Washington conference was a disappointment . " In Paris M. Laval was not further from Mr. Hoover than during the days he spent as a guest ' at the White House , " it says . " Even if Mr. Hoover mastered French or M. Laval understood English , the two statesmen could hardly have understood each other . Theoretically the Washington result means a change for the worse in Germany , but virtually nothing is likely to change . , " The negative result of the Washington meeting does not mean the United States , after its great disappointment with M. Laval , intends to return to the principle of ignoring European problems , for the realization of the linked interests of the Old and New Worlds has already become too deep . " The Nationalist press regards the conference as a failure and blames France . " How America can now still think of an economically successful collaboration with France remains a mystery , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the sole solution is in economic sanctions against France . "                     