@@730950

Attorney General Elliot L. Richardson today turned over to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee a memorandum on Henry A. Kissinger 's role in the wiretapping of 17 officials and newsmen from 1969 to 1971 , but failed to satisfy Senators who haVe threatened to delay Mr. Kissinger 's confirmation as Secretary of State . Senator J. W. Fulbright , chairman of the committee , said that Mr. Richardson 's hour and a half with the committee behind closed doors fell short of the members ' expectations . He said the committee still lacked information on the motivation for specific wiretaps , the procedure used to institute them and the results achieved . Later in the day , the committee met in private session and voted 14 to 0 to authorize Senator John J. Sparkman , Democrat of Alabama , and Senator Clifford Case , Republican of New Jersey , to meet with Mr. Richardson and Acting Deputy Attorney General William D. Ruckelshaus " to obtain information on Dr. Kissinger 's role ' respecting his initiative , or concurrence in wiretap surveillance . " Kissinger Support . Indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the full group with their recommendations . They were authorized to read the full Federal Bureau of Investigation report from which Mr. Richardson 's memorandum was written . It was not known if the report would be made available to them , After Mr. Richardson 's testimony , Mr. Kissinger met for two hours in open session with the committee , and again answered a range of foreign policy questions . It seemed that a majority of the committee , while irked with the difficulty in receiving a full wiretap report from the Justice Department , was still inclined to support Mr. Kissinger for the job . Mr. Kissinger seemed relaxed during most of today 's session ? the second since Friday 's opening hearing . The committee asked him to return again tomorrow morning . At least two Democratic Senators , Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island and George of South Dakota , pressed Mr. Kissinger on the question of American policy toward the Soviet Union in the // current crackdown on Soviet dissidents , and after critical comments by the National Academy of Sciences in Washington . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that further harassment of Andrei D. Sakharov , the outspoken psysicist and civil rights advocate , could lead to curtailment in the Soviet-American scientific exchange program . Mr. Kissinger , agreeing that the question of the dissidents was difficult , said that he and other officials had made known their , personal concern to Soviet authorities about repressive policies , but that it did not serve the interests of either country for the United States to make an official protest , or to try to link domestic change in the Soviet Union with improved relations with the United States . Opponents Seek Hearing The wiretap issue , which hung over the committee hearing , seemerf'to threaten delay of Mr. Kissinger 's confirmation . Many members are insistent on getting the full resort on the taps of 13 officials and four newsmen . In addition , the request of some 15 groups to testify against Mr. Kissinger could delay confirmation . some of the Republicans on the committee , such as the ranking minority member , George D. Aiken of Vermont , have voiced concern that the process not prevent Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Assembly on Sept. 24 . " I do not regard Henry Kissinger as a saint , " Mr. Aiken said . " I feel sure that sometime during his life he has committed sins , but on the other hand , it is simply a matter , of degree and I do not believe any member of Congress can qualify as the president of the stonecasters association at this time because everybody is guilty . " He said that he hoped the United States would not lose international respect by " interminable delay in making a decision " on - the nomination of Mr. Kissinger , who is President Nixon 's adviser on national security . Mr. Fulbright , Democrat of Arkansas , ' drew some laughter from the crowded Senate caucus room when he said : " I do not think Dr. Kissinger requires the title of Secretary of State to function . He has been functioning " forcefully without it . " Mr. Kissinger , who has asked Mr. Richardson to answer the committee 's questions about the , legal issues involved in wiretapping , was asked by Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of State he would " continue to approve their use . " The issue of wiretapping raises the balance between human liberty and the requirements of national security , " Mr. Kissinger said , " and I would say that the weight should be on the side of human liberty and that if human liberty is infringed , the demonstration of national security must be overwhelming and that would be my general attitude . " Names Were Supplied Mr. Richardson , In his memorandum , made public by the ' committee , said the Justice Department was not revealing the names or details about the individuals whose phones were tapped because " it has long been Justice Department policy that this kind of material should not be disclosed unless an overriding public interest makes it essential . " He said that " I think it would be very wrong and very dangerous for anybody at the White House tapped , but that this had ceased before Mr. Moose began work for the committee in October , 1969 . The memorandum said : " As best can be determined from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern over leaks of sensitive material and when this concern was coupled with that of the President and transmitted to the director of the F.B.I . it led to efforts to stem the leaks , which efforts included some wiretaps of Government employes and newsmen . " " His role further involved-the supplying to the F.B.I . of names of individuals In the Government who had access to sensitive information and occasion review of information gene ated by the program to deter mine its usefulness , " the me signal that it would not object to acts of repression . " The opposite is true , " he said in reply . " The only reason why I do not go into greater detail about what we have discussed on a semiofficial basis is that it would ) , then deprive it of its semiofficial character . " " But I can assure you that not only have we not signaled to them we are prepared to overlook it , " he said . " We have signaled them exactly the opposite . " In a related development , Caspar W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at a news conference about his recent trip to . Moscow , said that it made no sense for United States officials " to fire a lot of bombastic statements back and fourth in the press . " . He said that the Soviet crackdown did not have his approval , but that the purpose of his visit was to get a medical exchange program moving and that protesting to the Russians about repression would not have done any good .                     