@@672650

The Presidential party arrived hero this morning at 9 o'clock , after an all-night run from Birmingham , Ala. , across the northern part of Mississippi . No stops Were made in that State , however , and the only incident of the run occurred at Jasper , Ala . That town was illuminated with many bonfires , and nearly 2,500 of the inhabitants gathered at the station to pay their respects . It was 11 o'clock when the train reached there , and the President , Postmaster-General Wanamaker , and all the ladies of the party had , retired for the night . This was a disappointment to the people , who , however , were allowed to-pass through the observation car and listen to speeches by Mr. George W. Boyd and Mr. Russell Harrison . When the train reached Belleview , a station seven mites from Memphis , this morning , it was boarded by a committee of citizens from that city . A number of ladies accompanied the party , and presented Mrs. Harrison and the other ladies of the party with bouquets of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ municipal officers received the President and party on their arrival in the city . A large crowd , including the local militia , were gathered at the station and cheered the President when he appeared on the platform . The party was taken to the Merchants ' Exchange , where the President made a speech congratulating Memphis upon its diversified industries and its magnificent waterway . A public reception here was followed by another on the train , ' which then passed slowly down the incline to the immense ferryboat of the Little Rock and Memphis Road , and at noon , amid a tremendous din of whistles , the boat moved slowly from the shore and the Presidential party was well on its way to the Arkansas capital The President and party received a cordial welcome at this place , The Governor of the State , the Mayor of Little Rook , and a committee of citizens , including representatives of the Grand Army of the Republic anti Confederate Veterans , met them at Memphis and escorted them to the capital of Arkansas . The receiving party was increased at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of ladies from Little Rook , including Mrs. Eagle , wife of the Governor , and Mrs. Caldwell A military salute was fired as the train reached this city and the President was cheered by the large crowd assembled . He and the rest of his party were escorted to the State House , where a formal address of welcome was made by the Governor and responded to by the President , Secretary Rusk , and Postmaster General Wanamaker . The President then held a short pnblie reception . The Presidential party left here at 6:45 o'olook this evening for Texarkana . Gen. Stanley , Department Commander of Texas , and Gen. McCook , Department Commander of Arizona , will join the party in Texas . A pleasing incident of the President 's visit to Memphis was witnessed just as the train left the station . Esther Mosby , an aged colored woman who belonged to Harrison 's grandfather , John E. Page , and who was a playmate of the President in childhood at Page Brook , Va. , was trying to get a glimpse of him . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crowd , until a reporter came along and escorted her in . From window to window of his car she went , not satisfied until she had found him and had shaken him cordially by the ? hand . It is hardly possible to tell ' who enjoyed it more , the President or his old playmate . The pleasure was evidently mutual . Fearing ' lest she should not see him , she had written him a letter and given it to an officer to deliver , which he did after the train started .                     