@@710650

Cuba this afternoon laid down her expected challenge to the United States on the issue of economic aggression . Before a plenary session of the Inter-American Defense Conference , Cuba 's chief delegate , Dr. Guillermo Belt , demanded the inclusion of terms prohibiting " threats and aggressions of an economic character " in the hemispheric pact that the conference is to write . He was supported by a general plea to the same effect by Foreign Minister Luis Fernando Guachalla of Bolivia . Despite a growing tendency among other delegations to drop the economic question until fullscale examination of the problem can be had at the conference at Bogota in January , Dr. Belt declined to soften his remarks . The projected treaty wouldbe a mockery if the subject were evaded now , he asserted . Marshall Has No Comment United States Secretary of State Marshall , leaving at the close of the session , would make no comment on Dr. Belt 's speech . Soon afterward Secretary Marshall called on Foreign Minister Jaime Torres Bodet of Mexico , author . of.a. , resolution to defer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was indicated , Mr. Marshall will see Foreign Minister Juan A. Bramuglia of Argentina , who has proposed the holding of an interim Pan-American economic parley . In general , it appeared that Mr. Marshall might face a plenary fight on a question of the economic phase of hemispheric defense , in principle , even if all implementation of the matter was delayed until Bogota . Secretary Marshall will address the conference Wednesday afternoon . One first-rank Latin-American delegate suggested that the forty-eight hour gap between Dr. Belt 's and Mr. Marshall 's addresses had been strongly favored by the United States in an effort to avoid Mr. Marshall 's being rushed in any necessary reply to the Cuban spokesman .. In his address preceding that of Dr. Belt , Senor Fernando Guachalla for Bolivia said a defense system must be considered a corollary to a sound hemispheric economy . Bolivian Favors Early Move The Bolivian spokesman urged discussion of the problem at a. special conference or by existing agencies , but in any event before the Bogota conference . One such agency might be the proposed new United Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being studied by a group under the United Nations Economic and Social Council , following requests by Chile and other Latin-American nations at Lake Success . Spokesmen for Venezuela and El Salvador also addressed the afternoon session , at which Foreign Minister Arturo Despradel of the Dominican Republic presided . The conference paid tribute to the late Dr. Leo S. Rowe , long Director General of the Pan American Union . Dr. Alberto Lleras Camargo , former President of Colombia and Dr. Rowe 's successor in the Pan American ' Union post , spoke briefly , urging the drafting here of a defense system " devoid of the danger of the veto . " The United States formally proposed ( hiring the day that the conference discuss immediately the creation of a military agency to back up the hemispheric defense treaty , said an Associated Press dispatch . Senator Tom Connally of Texas , a member of the United States delegation , submitted the plait in committee No. 1 , of which he is a member . It would provide for study by the conference of " the creation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In his statement for Cuba , Dr. Belt made no direct reference to the United States nor to the new United States Sugar Act , against which he has spoken out as Cuban Ambassador in Washington . Yet ijontinned on Page 3 , Col ma CUBA URGES IN PACT AN ECONOMIC CURB // the effect of Dr. Belt 's remarks here , in the minds of observers , wad.as though they had been addressed to Secretary Marshall personally , With a few prelinainaries , tDr . Belt asserted that the delegates had not come to Rio de Janeiro " to rubber-stamp their signatures on the Act of Chapultepec . " Cuban Demands Definitions " The Cuban delegation feels that the Chapter ( of the new defense treaty ) , which refers to threats and acts of aggression will be incomplete and lack value if it fails to include threats and aggressions of an economic character , " Dr. Belt went on . " The simple notification of one state by another that it will apply sanctions or coercive measures of an economic character should be considered as ' a threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be considered an ' act of aggression . " My Government is confident that this doctrine as enunciated by our President Ramon Grau San Martin will include an article of the treaty we are discussing . At the same time we are confident this article will be approved unanimously . " Since there already existed " absolute assurance " that no nation would seek to apply such sanctions unilaterally , Dr. Belt added , nothing was more logical or more natural than td give the assurance in treaty form . - This was generally taken as a reference to the United States representations to Cuba at - the time President Truman signed the new sugar act . Then Dr. Belt caused a murmur throughout the hall when he added : " The penal code never worries an honest man . " Both the Act of Chapultepec and the United Nations Charter recognized the punitive use of limitation or severance of economic , commercial or financial relations against a nation endangering peace and security , the Cuban continued . " Therefore , how can the states which subscribed to the United Nations Charter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts of aggression those which are purely economic in character ? " Dr. Belt remarked . A treaty for hemispheric peace and security that did not include a definition of economic threats and aggression , he said , would be " like a world disarmament plan that failed to consider the control of atomic energy . "                     