@@707050

Prime Minister Churchill 's Sunday broadcast has provided new impetus to the fascinating occupation of planning for a better world . Such planning now claims the attention of all Governments and numerous private organizations throughout the world , and especially in this country . Even Hitler is preparing to announce a new " charter " for a " new Europe , " in which the small nations are to be left some identity provided they combine with the Axis in a common bulwark against Communism . Churchill 's speech is the most detailed and most authoritative British pronouncement on the post-war world so far , and in its international aspects embodies , presumably , ideas which anthony Eden is now presenting to the American Government . They therefore merit our most careful scrutiny . Mr. Churchill himself warns that such planning must not divert us from our first and foremost task of winning the war . And he likewise warns that " nothing could be more foolish at this stage than to plunge into details and try to prescribe the exact groupings of states , or lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to argue about frontiers . " With these admonitions every sensible person will agree . Nothing has done more harm to the cause of the United Nations than the recent arguments about Russia 's post-war frontiers . But within the limits set by such considerations , Mr. Churchill undertakes to " simplify and mollify political divergencies , " and to preserve unity among the United Nations by presenting in broadest outlines some ideas for an international post-war organization which would first of all disarm the guilty nations , punish the war criminals and attend to post-war reconstruction . This organization would be based primarily on the cooperation of the three principal Powers , the British Empire , the United States and Russia . But it would embrace all the United Nations , and some day all nations of the world , and would preserve some of the lofty conceptions of freedom , law and morality which constituted the spirit of the League of Nations . Under such a global organization there would be created subsidiary - regional organizations , in particular a Council of Europe and a Council of Asia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces . national or international or both , held ready to enforce its decisions and prevent renewed aggression and preparation for future wars . The rights of weaker and smaller states must be safeguarded , Mr. Churchill declared ; and he pointedly added " that it will not be given to any one nation to achieve the full satisfaction of its individual wishes . " But he also urged the small states to create a number of groupings of states or confederations which wbuld express themselves through their Ov-n chosen representatives , and would thus be able to play a greater role than they could individually , side by side with the great Powers . These ideas are undoubtedly the product of much study by the British Government . There is much in them to command American sympathies . Thby are realistic in advancing as a prerequisite to their materialization the " cordial and concerted agreement and direct participation " of the three Powers mentioned . And they are practical in trying to preserve the spirit , but not apparently the rigid organization , of the League of Nations . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to join with Britain in making this a better and a safer world to live in . But they also raise many questions , and before they can be accepted they will require much more study of all the possible implications and consequences . For one thing , the " cordial and concerted agreement " among Britain , the United States and Russia on which the whole scheme rests must still be established . If Russia were to accept the stipulations regarding the small nations in conformity with the Atlantic Charter , America 's cooperation would be much more assured than it is now . Again , the limitation . of the decisive power to the " Big Three " will probably cause many resentments elsewhere . Why should there not be included among the big Powers , for example , the new China and , above all , a new and rejuvenated France , without which a stable ? Europe is unthinkable ? Finally , the regional councils based on regional organizations suggest too much the regional blocs proposed by the Axis to be accepted without further definition of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of excluding non-European inter . ' ests from Europe , and Occidental interests from the Orient .                     