@@703050

While a vast tide of destruction , battle and destitution is surging across ever-spreading areas in , China , preceded and accompanied by a wholesale hegira of the population , it becomes daily clearer that a fundamental struggle is arising between order and anarchy . The World War years in Europe witnessed a similar colossal panic and evacuations of wholesale populations , but the total in millions of people and the total areas involved except in the case of the Russian fronts were much smaller and the homeless , destitute civilians could fall back upon areas into centers of population with vast wealth . In China no such great reserves of wealth exist and millions of refugees fall back into areas already densely populated by peasants and townsfolk , now , as for centuries past , carrying on with the narrowest possible margin between econbmic safety and destitution and starvation . The deeper the Japanese Army penetrates into these vast , overpopulated areas the more staggering become the burdens of administration and rehabilitation that Japan must assume . Military control of whole provinces and triumphant marches into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headlines for Japanese readers , but , although they enhance the Japanese Army 's prestige at home , they mean an ever-growing burden upon Japanese taxpayers . These depopulated and chaotic countrysides will not yield enough foodstuffs next Summer to support even the army of occupation , much less productively afford any returns to Japanese investors nor give Japan the anticipated markets for the products of her factories . Not Genuine Occupation The occupied northern provinces at present afford a frightful spectacle of anarchy , disorganization and outlawry . Tens of thousands are perishing of hunger and bitter cold in an unusually severe Winter . In a military sense the Japanese Army holds North China but actually the effective occupation extends only a few miles on either side of the railways , highways , rivers and canals . Outside of these narrow lanes of essential military communication banditry is practically universal and the destruction of property colossal , many areas actually lapsing into deplorable conditions of savagery . In order to remedy this situation Japan must vastly increase the size of her army south of the Great Wall , and already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1,000,000 uniformed outside of Japanese islands ut counting the cost of traind equipping an unending supreinforcements. eign military observers agree the Japanese Army in the stze area and the occupation of North China provinces and Mongolia must reach a corntotal of around 600,000 men . er 300,000 are maintained n Manchukuo . The Korean on is at least 50,000 more . remendous force must become ymbol for law , order and staor else Japan 's program on astern Asiatic mainland faces able collapse . Iscipline in Army Needed the Japanese Army will not e such a symbol unless effeeiscipline is restored and unin the future , the lootings and rs which accompanied the re of Nanking and other places in the Yangtze battle areas are rigorously prevented . China 's problem is even more difficult as the great tide of millions upon millions of refugees floods the interior provinces ahead of the Japanese advance . The Chinese Government has not the reserves of food or cash to give the proper care to these millions of destitute . In fact it is doubtful if China will long be able to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay becomes more and more in arrears mutinies and depredations upon a staggering scale are feared . Japan will then be able to claim with a great degree of truth that her mission is to restore order and . suppress anarchy . But America and Europe will not forget who is responsible for destroying the government and creating this very anarchy . In this situation foreign traders and even foreign educators and missions in the China field will almost inevitably begin to side with Japan . Trade and all other types of foreign activities in China will become impossible under conditions of anarchy and , while all foreign activities are certain to be circumscribed in all areas under Japanese control , foreigners will feel that some degree of activity is preferable to none . s ou anzal o apanese roops mare a ong a tree attack on Nanking .                     