@@704450

Finland 's success so far in resisting the Soviet nvasion is increasingly regarded here as potentially altering the whole : ourse of the Allied war with Germany . In fact , there is good reason to believe that the Finnish conflict is regarded as the pivotal point of the entire European situation . The problem of Scandinavia 's position in regard to both wars is authoritatively understood to be receiving intensive study in Government circles in both London and Paris , and the vital importance of the Finnish victory to the democratic cause is assuming a much larger place in the calculations of the Allies . Substantial Ald Sent With this in view both Britain and France have been sending substantial aid to the Finns in the form of airplanes , guns , ammunition , and othe. war supplies . an international radiocast today , Foreign Secretary Viscount Halifax promised that British help to Finland " will not remain an idle promise , a mere academic formality . " ' The opinion of experts thoroughly familiar with the Swedish climate and terrain is that though more supplies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Finns , additional man power is not likely to be helpful until late in the spring . In May , however , the ground dries sufficiently to become passable for large-scale military operations , and it is then that help in bulk in man power , munitions , and airplanes will be essential if the Finns are to continue their present successful resistance . Aware of this the British and French are studying the possioilities of large-scale " nonintervention " on the Spanish model with volunteers . But as May is also likely to bring a recrudescence of activity on the German front these possibilities are admittedly limited . Recruits From America American sympathy for Finland has given rise to some hopes that a large proportion of the 30,000 or so volunteers , who it Is estimated would be needed , might be recruited from the big sections of the population in the United States who are of Swedish and Finnish , origin . Whether many of the 200 airplanes which It is felt the Finns must have could also come from the United States seems mole doubtful , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having in supplying Allied orders . In three major respects the Finnish struggle is seen here as of intense significance to the cause of the Allies . First , the Finns ' heroic courage in defending their independence has already served to encourage wavering neutrals elsewhere . It is as If Finland by its moral courage , as well ns the physical bravery , of its citizens , has broken the mesmerism of fear which had hitherto seemed to prevent any effective resistance to the dictators . Iron Ore Supply at Stake 6econd , the question of iron ore which Germany now derives from the rich Swedish mines is obviously involved in the conflict . The primary importance of these supplies to the Reich in carrying on the war inevitably raises the query as to possible ways of cutting off this source of supply . The position of Sweden thus becomes of paramount Importance . Third , it is considered likely that as long as the Soviets have their hands full in the Finnish conflict the probability of their co-operation with the Germans in a Balkan coup against Hungary and Rumania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruled out . The same applies to any Russian move against Iran or Turkey . 