@@732550

Letters to the Editor Letters to the Editor Reactor Safety Study : A Perilous Omission Of 2 Candidates ' To the Editor : In answer to widespread concern about the safety of nuclear power plants , the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission has recently issued a long and technical " Reactor Safety Study . " If one reads the report carefully , he finds that it is much less reassuring than summaries of this report imply . The difficulty is that it is impossible in principle to anticipate all the ways in which a series of equipment failures might lead to a catastrophic melting of the fuel . The only way we can learn what can go wrong is through experience . A recent reactor accident demonstrates this fact very dramatically . The key question addressed by the report is : What are the chances that the nuclear fuel in a power plant will heat up enough to find its way into the environment ? A tremendous amount of radioactivity could be released in such an accident . In answer to this question , the authors of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the equipment in a reactor could fail and thereby cause a fuel " meltdown . " Fifty reactors operating for twenty years are equivalent to one thousand " reactor-years . " According to the Rasmussen Report , if the U.S. kept on bqilding and operating reactors for centuries , without changing the design , meltdowns would occur once in every 20,000 reactoryears , on average . The fundamental drawback with this conclusion is that nobody can think ; up ad the different ways a meltdown ' can happen . Experience is our only reliable teacher . The authors of the , report spent a lot of time worrying About pipes breaking , valves jamming , etc. , but decided not to study fires . In fact , they made a " qualitative judgment " not to consider fires in their calculations . This is " strange , since fires have always been the major cause of damage at Government-owned nuclear John Kennedy 's Belief To the Editor : I was disappointed to read in James Reston 's June 6 cohimn , " Carter , Evangelism and Jews , " that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' convinced his critics that he did not really believe in his religion . Whatever President Kennedy 's critics may have thought , and no matter what Mr. Reston may believe , President Kennedy did believe in and practiced his religion . Although not demonstrative in his practice of religion , ' or'lalkative about his beliefs . he attended ' church regularly , was a frequent communicant at mass and understood the meaning and value of daily prayer . He did not hide his Catholic upbringing or downplay its importance during his campaign for election . In two largely . Protestant states , West Virginia and Oregon , my son openly attended mass in full view of the news media , which he did regularly everywhere . He firmly believed that privately he could adhere to his faith while publicly being a leader of all the people . On the day of his inauguration , I was especially gratified to discover him at an early morning mass , starting his Presidency by offering his mind and heart , and expressing his hopes and fears , to Almighty God , and asking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation needs deeply religious leaders to guide and inspire all of us during these times of such uncertainty . Let us hope that all , of the candidates are God-fearing persons , and let us examine their qualities without criticizing the religious beliefs and practices of others . ROSE F. KENNEDY - Hyannis Port , Mass. , June 9 , 1976 ? Gun-Control Compromise To the Editor : Your May 23 editorial " Chance for Fewer Guns " prompts these thoughts : Some sort of compromise is in order which will ( 1 ) permit private enterprise  --  capitalism ? to continue , ( 2 ) recognize the difference between the small , concealable handgun and those used by the majority of opponents to controls and ( 3 ) , while making the price of the " cheap pocket gun " prohibitive to its clientele , provide a vehicle to minimize the volumes ( reportedly forty million ) currently " at large " in the several states . A possible compromise between the two extremes  --  complete or no control ? is to heavily tax the " pocket gun , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Standards , establish a model sentencing act for handgun violations at the national level , facilities . Then on March 22 , 1975 , a fire destroyed most electrical cables Controlling the two commercial reactors at Browns Ferry , Alabama , and a meltdown was just barely aN:bided . After the fire , the nuclear safety experts realized that , when they included calculations for the specific kind of fire that happened , the chances of a meltdown increased significantly , depending upon the assumptions made regarding the time needed to complete repair work during the accident . Furthermore , they admitted that they had not even begun to estimate the chances that other kinds of fires might cause a meltdown . This leads us to wonder how many other kinds of accidents were ignored in the report . We may , not realize how important these omissions are until it is too late . ROBERT 0 . POHL CHARLES F. ZIMMERMANN Ithaca , N. Y. , June 6 , 1976 The writers are . respectively , . professor of physics and a graduate student in resource economics at Cornell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such an act through purchase subsidy of those handguns now in circulation and , lastly , highly increased enforcement against those offenders who remain in possession and use the defined . weapon . . A Federal expenditure of $200 million-plus ? could be a wise ' investment , Whatever the ultimate outcome , it will surely include compromise and exclude personal politics . Both are long overdue in this important national issue . D. D. POMERLEAU Police Commissioner May 24 , 1976 ? Amtrak - Report To the Editdr : Surprise ! They 've Sound - out-  how to run a In the past month I have used Amtrak to travel more than ; 4,000 miles . Eight trains were involved . Every one was on time . Coach accommodations between ' New Haven and Washington were as good as the old parlor cars . Roomettes , used for most of the travel , were comfortable and well-attended . Food in both snack cars and diners was good and reasonably ' priced . So I did n't make the four . thousand miles in four hours . These days , too many people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this track , and you could be out of the red and into the black . ARTHUR J. MILLER Cheshire , Conn. , May 31 , 1976 ? Ice-Cream Superlative To the Editor : It is apparent that Judith Weinraub and Leslie Slote believe that London alone is the United Kingdom . Either that or the two have never ventured outside London proper to sample ice cream elsewhere in Great Britain . News story June 4 . ) Had either of them gone to Cornwall , he or she would have discovered what my wife and I did two years ago : Without a doubt the best ice cream in the world is Cornish ice cream . Do n't let the people of Cornwall see the article , or they may sue your paper for misrepresentation of fact . Cornwall is indeed part of the United Kingdom . JACK LEMENAGER New Canaan , Conn. , June 4 , 1976 To the Editor : The remarkable success of Jimmy Carter 's Presidential campaign , and the " stop Carter " resistance that its progress has lately encountered , are easily explained . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affection and trust of ordinary Americans in all sections of the country . And it is precisely the breadth of his appeal which his opposition views with fear and distrust . Important . differences in political ideology have been plainly absent from this Democratic primary campaign . It is not Carter 's issues that Northern liberals fault but rather the conservative cultural style of his political leadership . But most Americans , black and white , are cultural conservatives . The failure of left liberalism lay in its linkage of political and social reform with a cultural revolution that failed . By linking the issues of peace and justice to contempt for the homely goodness that most Americans know and value in their own lives , bigoted elitist ideologues , prepared the way fpr Nixon , ' a man Americans instinctively distrusted but chose as the price of their Self-respect . Jimmy Carter 's personal appeal and inspired leadership offer the ( best chance in a generation for uniting and reforming our American polity . The it tack on Carter 's political style could have been made with equal merit against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Did the present attackers show more promise ? of great political leadership , it would apply to them as well . That is why the " stop Carter " movement appears to me less an attack on Jimmy Carter than an attatlle on the very possibility of restoring that public morale and trust without which there can be ' ' no hope for political , . social or economic reform . LEONARD D. liar.Z Princeton , N. J. , June 3 , 1976 ? To the Editor : On June 6 President Ford visited Paterson , N.J. , to dedicate Paterson 's Great Falls . Rain . began falling earlyin the day and continued all day-steadily , sometimes heavily . After the ceremonies , Paterson 's Mayor , Lawrence F. Kramer , escorted the President to his home , where a reception plus great crowds awaited to welcome him . Driving through . the streets of Paterson lined with well-wishers , the Presi , dent asked his driver to open the top . The driver , hesitating , said , " But Mr. President , it 's raining . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on all those ' people , too . " The top opened , and the President stood waving in the pouring rain to all . I admire this humility in our leader and feel that the little things we do are the things that really count . MATILDA R. DURGET Franklin Lakes , N.J. ; June 7 , 1976 ? To the  --  Editor : The Federal Government , personified by our All-American down-homer Gerald Ford , has assumed the role of chastizing God with respect to the City of New York . He ? has , with great Christian parsimony , deigned to lend the taxpayers ' money to the profii : gates of this city on his ever-fluctuating terms . God  --  that is , Gerry  --  help us if we do not toe the marks which he keeps drawing for us . . What hypocrisy . How dare he lecture to this city , which bears the  --  ull burden of the largest poverty . group , in the United States , a group which , is mainly composed of victims of our Federal Government 's foreign policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economies of small . cotuir tries by supporting our multinational corporations and greedy dictators . To be sure , our Statue of . Liberty still stands in the harbor welcoming the downtrodden and the not-so-dovin. - trodden to this crumbling metroptillS : But what are they welcomed to now ? Unemployment , fire-gutted slums ; crime-ridden streets and empty municipal coffers . When will the Federal Government , to whom we pay outrageous shares of our income , begin to assume ' its responsibility for all of us victims of  --  its greed and indifference ? RICHARD J. Pat-mitt New York , June 6 , 1976 ? On Garcia Lorca 's Death To the Editor : In regard to Henry Kamm 's June news story of the death of Garcia Lorca : What Mr. Kamm is saying . is that the right wishes nothing to , be saidabout this death at all , ' while the left wishes Lorca to be regarded as a political martyr . A third version exists which perhaps one of your readers , ' better in : - formed than I , can confirm or refute ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was killed by his fianc  --  e 's brother . That politics enters into even this version comes about through the brother 's being a supporter of the Franco forces . But the nub of Version Three is that Lorca was a homosexual , and as such had realized that getting married would be a big mistake . Thus the murderous brother was avenging the family honor in a double sense : his sister 's betrothal  --  almost tantamount , to marriage in Spanish tradition  --  had been desecrated and , secondly , the guilty party was , by his very nature , an insult to Spanish womanhood , not to mention manhood . If Version Three is correct , then Lorca 's death was one of the Monstrous Martyrdoms Oscar Wilde predicted for gay people , and not a political matter in the ordinary sense of left vs. right . ERIC BENTLEY New York , June 4 , 1976                     