@@727850

Prime Minister Abdul Rahman suspended the Malaysian Constitution today as racial strife continued here . The Prime Minister had waited until it appeared that antagonism between the city 's Chinese and Malay ethnic communities could not be contained , despite a 24-hour curfew and the presence of more than 3,000 policemen and soli diers in the streets . In making his announcement . the Prime Minister said ' ' the situation in Kuala Lumpur has , not improved . " Despite appeals for calm by leaders of the ruling Alliance party , the city remained tense , with new inci dents of violence reported . At least 57 persons were killed and scores wounded during rioting last night . Most of the dead were said by an official at the city morgue to be Chinese . The suspension of the Constitution in emergencies is authorized under edicts announced in the nineteen fifties ' during the guerrilla war by Chinese Communists against Malaya , then British-ruled . In his announcement , the Prime Minister suggested that the rioting was organized by Communists , and his new powers appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terrorists under cover of political parties are trying for In comeback . " During national elections last Saturday , Chinese political party victories in several important states of Malaya cut heavily into the Prime Minister 's Malay-dominated Alliance party , and much of the current bitterness between the two ethnic communities is a result of these successful Chinese challenges to the ruling party 's power . Powers Under New Law Under his new powers the Prime Minister may proclaim his own laws in dealing with rioters . The penalties may include , he said deportation , loss of citizenship or death . The implied threat of loss of citizenship and deportation is seen here as being most ominous for the Chinese , who came here to work under the formen ' British colonial rule and have since remained , multiplied , and made Malaysia their home . Malays account for about a half and Chinese for a third of the country 's 10 million people . The Government , under the Prime Minister 's direction , may also seize property and commandeer any ship or airplane registered in Malaysia . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has also cancelled state elections scheduled in the two remaining Malaysian states in Borneo  --  Sarawak and Sabah ? where they have not yet been held . The Alliance party was known to be facing more setbacks in those elections . They were to be held during tile coming weeks . Police at Street Corners - In the capital tonight , riot police and soldiers were massed at street corners with orders to shoot curfew violators . A pall of tear gas hung in the still , hot air after the police had thrown gas canisters into alleys and behind buildings where groups of young rioters were seen moving about . In the Chinese communities , where most of last night 's damage was caused , inhabitants have erected makeshift barricades draped with red flags . The red color is seen not as a Communist symbol but as a traditional Chinese color of solidarity and good luck . Two buildings were burning into the night and shouts and sounds of glass breaking could be heard from a distance . In the afternoon , a tour of the city 's empty streets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Mala districts men were seen gathering , armed with bricks , knives ' and other sharpened weapons . The soldiers appeared to be making no efforts to stop these groups of Malays.                     