@@733950

A Congressional subcommittee called on Congress and the Department of Health , Education and Welfare yesterday to take a stronger hand in regulating the amount and quality of surgical care delivered to Americans . The subcommittee , headed by Representative John E. Moss , Democrat of California , who retires this month , said that since its first report on unnecessary surgery nearly three years ago , there has not been a significant decline in the number of unneeded operations . The subcommittee estimated in its first report that 2.4 million Americans underwent unnecessary operations in 1974 , at a cost of $4 billion and with a loss of 11,900 lives . The American Medical Association took strong issue with that conclusion , contending that there was almost no unnecessary surgery . This . prompted the subcommittee'to re-examine its data and review additional studies . The report issued yesterday said that the A.M.A. had presented " faulty " and " imprecise " data to support its view and concluded that only a slight downward revision in the original estimate was in order . It gave a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss of more than 10,000 lives and a cost that remained at $4 billion because of inflation . An A.M.A. spokesman did not address the issue of unnecessary surgery yesterday , . though he did , attack several other conclusions drawn by , the Subcommittee on Overnight and Investigations of the House Commiaee , on Interstate and Foreign Commerce . The subcommittee declared that its additional examination of ? surgical care had disclosed such widetifferences in the quality of care among hospitals that a patient having an operation would be twice as likely to die in one hospital as in another . Among surgical mishaps deemed preventable/in one major study , more than three-fourths were due to surgeon errors , the subcommittee said . It asked H. E.W. to set up a national program that would monitor medical care mishaps and determine their causes and frequency . Data from the program should be made publicly available , it said . For example , it said , " it would seem that a person living in the Greater Boston area needing open heart surgery might like to be aware that within a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that procedure of 49 , 22 and 10 percent respectively . " Expressing concern that the public was not adequately informed about variations in the quality of care , , it asserted that no organization , including the Professional Standard Review Organizations , was making a thorough attempt to-eliminate incompetence and improve care . Accordingly , the , panel recommended that Congress consider the following legislation : ilFor highly elective operations , such as hysterectomies and , tonsillectomies , paid for by Government funds , patients should be required to meet pre-set criteria before they were hospitalized . Minimum standards of competency should be established for physicians who perform surgery : tiThe review organizations should increase their percentage of public representatives and obtain sufficient financing to do comprehensive evaluations of medical care . Clmmunity from litigation should be provided to protect institutions that participate in research and educational studies designed to improve the quality of The subcommittee called upon H.E.W . to establish a program requiring that a surgical consultant give his opinion before patients undergo highly elective operations . Such second opinion programs for surgery have been set up on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Medicaid programs . H.E.W . also recently established a national toll-free hotline , 800-325-6400 ( in Missouri , 800342-6600 ) to enable individuals seeking a second opinion before surgery to find a qualified consultant . The A.M.A. said in a statement issued yesterday by its executive vice president , Dr. James H. Sammons , that while it supported voluntary second-opinion programs , it took issue with the subcommittee 's approach . " It appears that the subcommittee has applied limited , early results from a few studies to the nation as a whole without justification , " Dr. Sammons said . The , subcommittee recommended that H.E.W . require an " aggressive review " of surgical services by the review organizations and improve the department 's data on the number and cost of operations paid for by Medicaid . The report noted that currently the review groups have no mandate to improve the quality of care by any specific amount nor are they required to make specific measurements of the improvements they achieve . Here , too , the medical association objected to the subcommittee 's views . Dr. Sammons said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " on the whole working well . " " To condemn these organizations out of hand at this early stage of their history is patently unfair , " he added . care .                     