@@712650

fONN , Germany , Jan. 26 ? Chancellor Konrad Adenauer was invited by the Western Allies today to send consuls general to London , Washington and Paris " without delay " and thus establish the first official and permanent West German representation abroad . Sir Brian Robertson , the British High Commissioner , acted on behalf of his French and United States colleagues in conveying the invitations of the three governments . It was announced that the West German Chancellor had accepted them " with pleasure " during a conference this afternoon at the High Commission 's headquarters . This is the first step toward the establishment of a West German consular service and , while the Bonn Republic has no Foreign Office , it is recognized that many of , the duties of these consulates will be . of a nature that is normally carried on by embassies . Earlier at a meeting of the High Commission , however , it was affirmed that foreign missions in Germany would continue to be formally accredited by the High Commission and to communicate with the West German Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct contact . The High Commissioners , in re // ALLIES ASK BONN TO SEND CONSULS // sponse to a question from the Chancellor , assured him of their concern regarding the return to Germany , of all prisoners of war , i and suggested that he draw up a report on the number still detained and whatever information he could gather concerning their treatment . In response to a question by the High Commission , Dr. Adenauer explained the circumstances under which the announcement of the proposed abolition of gasoline rationing had " erroneously " been issued without having consulted the Western Allied authorities . ' It was announced that consultations between German and Allied technidal representatives were continuing , but it was not clear today whether the official German announcement calling for the end of gasoline rationing Feb. 1 would be withdrawn . At the High Commission meeting a conference was planned for the near future with J. Donald Kingsley , Director General of the International Refugee Organization , to discuss the termination of this agency 's operations in June . It was announced that the organization probably would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year Visit from II . S. Aides Dr. Adenauer was visited yesterday , on instructions from the State Department , by two members , of the United States High Commissioner 's staff . They called to see what the Chancellor could do about calming the agitation in Western Germany on the Saar question and restated the United States position on the side of France . The visit of Maj. Gen. George P. Hays , acting High Commissioner in the absence of John J. McCloy , and James W. Riddleberger , ranking State Department representative in Germany , to Dr. Adenauer was not announced . But it was confirmed by the highest sources . Dr. Adenauer was reported to have expressed disappointment at the United States viewpoint on the Saar question , although the Americans assured him that the issue could not be considered completely closed until a peace treaty was signed . He was told that excited public discussion was harmful to French-German relations , which would be one of the keystones of the peace treaty . Adenauer Complains It is understood that Dr. Adenauer complained about French moves to negotiate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he did not believe Western Germany could enter the Council of Europe if these leases were concluded at the present time . ? Previously , Dr. Adenauer had indicated to the Western Allies that Western Germany would join the Council even if the Saar had separate membership . This attitude , however , appears to have been modified in view of the sudden eruption of the Saar controversy . The United States officials reminded Dr. Aden ... uer that Washington had supported the idea of the ? separation of the Saar from Germany since the former Secretary of State , George C. Marshall , had given assurances to the French on that question at the Moscow conference in 1947 . They confirmed also that this assurance had again been given to the French at the most recent Foreign Ministers ' conference in Paris . Report Not Confirmed According to one report , the American representatives indicated that the United States might intervene with France on the question of mine leases . This could not be confirmed , although American officials here believe that the French were equally at fault with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the leases . It is the view of United States authorities that fifty-year leases are not necessary at this time . French sources here doubted whether Dr. Adenauer would be able to carry out the American request that the Saar controversy be pushed out of the limelight . They said that the Chancellor probably had permitted it to get out of hand and that , despite his good intentions , he might not be able to control some of the Nationalists in his Government . On another Franco-German issue , the case of Justi e Minister Thomas Dehler , who evoked a formal protest by the French High Commissioner , Andre Francois Poncet , by a nationalistic speech , it was reported today that the French were satisfied with Dr. Adenauer 's explanations and that no attempt would be made to have Dr Dehler ousted .                     