@@704750

Plunging wheat markets have precipitated government action to peg minimum prices at Winnipeg and brought into the open the question of whether futures trading will be continued on the Winnipeg Exchange . .. uuring the trading period Saturday the Exchange announced that at the request of the Dominion Government wheat futures prices would be pegged as a mimimum at the levels ruling at the close of Friday 's market . These were : May . 70% ; July , 71% : and October . 73% . The pegs became effective at the close of trading Saturday and are to continue until further notice . " This action . " said the Winnipeg announcement , " is taken as a temporary measure pending a full discussion with the government . " For the time being , at least , other grains are not affected . J. K. recently appointed Minister of Trade and Commerce in succession to W. D Euler , declared there would be an immediate review of the whole wheat marketing situation and added that members of the Canadian Wheat Board had been summoned from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cabinet today . Representatives of the Winnipeg Grain Exchange and the Northwest Line Ele- vators Association also are expected to present their views to the government Futures Trading The statement that the whole marketing situation would be reviewed aroused apprehension that the government may consider closing futures trading in the Winnipeg Exchange altogether . Although neither has said so publicly , the understanding is that both Mr. and Agriculture Minister Gardiner favor the cessation of futures trading in war time , but would be prepared to continue the marketing machinery of the Exchange . The government may . however , be persuaded to avoid drastic action or at least postpone it . Although the government acted Saturday about the same time as Secretary Wallace requested United States exchanges to peg minimum prices , there apparently were no interchanges between the two countries beforehand . Another development in wheat of lesser importance was the announcement that there will be clarifying amendments made to the act under which the government gives financial backing to cooperatives who buy from farmers at an initial price of 60 cents per bushel for top grade wheat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this way , however , as most producers sell to the Canadian Wheat Board at a guaranteed minum of 70 cents for top grade and later share any profits the Board makes . Prior Pegging Operations The price pegging action by the Winnipeg Exchange recalls that on two previous occasions in recent years similar measures were adopted . On August 19. 1933 , at the request of the Canadian Wheat Board , the October wheat futures position was pegged at a minimum of 707 , cents a bushel , which remained in effect for a period of one month . On November 1 . 1939 , December wheat futures were pegged at 75 cents and May at SO cents . Later , the July delivery was pegged at SO cents , which remained in force until this contract expired . Thereafter , trading operations were resumed under normal conditions up until the present action .                     