@@728750

Pirated recordings of tapes and records are scooping money out of the pockets of the musicmakers . Union musicians have had enough of it . They are urging the State Department in Washington to press for revision of the universal copyright convention to include records and tape recordings . They say records and tapes  --  unauthorized and fraudulently duplicated ? amounted to $236 million of the United States market last year . This , they contend , cost untold millions in lost pay to professional musicians and of lost profits for the recording industry . The American Federation of Musicians says the problem is worldwide and " the need for remedy is immediate . " It collies high , but ... It now costs Uncle Sam more money to enroll a young person in the Job Corps program than to give him a year at Harvard University . The average annual cost to the Labor Department for each student is now $6,274 . By contrast , a student at Harvard during the 1969-70 academic year spent an estimated $4,300 for tuition , board , room , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also includes travel , medical care , job training , and counseling . And the federal government sees this outlay for disadvantaged youths as justifiable . It reports that during the first half of fiscal 1970 , 80 percent of those who came out of the program were placed in jobs , school , or military service within 90 days . Caught in between American workers are showing signs of " uncertainty , frustration , and anger . " This is what I. W. Abel , president of United Steelworkers and chairman of AFL-CIO 's Economic Policy Committee , told the Joint Economic Committee of Congress . He said the dissatisfaction is based on what he called the workers ' " well-founded feeling " that they have been victimized both by inflation ? which shrinks their buying power ? and by layoffs and cuts in working hours ? which shrink earnings . The union leader said workers object to being considered " expendable in their fight against inflation , that their unemployment is a price that has to be paid . " The thaw begins Leonard Woodcock has made a difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the United Automobile Workers , the strained relations between UAW and AFL-CIO have taken a turn for the better . Mr. Woodcock has met privately at least once with federation president George Meany . Their discussion of a broad range of problems was described as " very friendly . " One immediate effect : close cooperation between AFL-CIO and the auto union , including the federation 's support for UAW in its tough negotiations with the industry 's big three this summer . But , despite the amicable talks , do n't look for UAW to return to the federation fold any time soon . Do n't start packing yel The four-day workweek is on its way back as a labor demand . Next year the United Steelworkers plans to ask for a reduction in work time . And according to AFL-CIO 's Department of Research , other unions will be working toward that goal in the years just ahead . Many workers already are under contracts providing for a 35-hour week . But do n't start planning those three-day weekends yet . AFL-CIO cautions that though the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still not become common in the next few years . ! Unions in City Ilall Most people who work for city governments in the U.S. belong to some form of employee union . A recent survey by the International City Management Association shows that municipal employees now are unionized in three out of every four American cities .. Firemen are more heavily organized-82 percent  --  than any other group .                     