@@675350

against President Andrade had been the primary cause of the revolution . In two engagements before Nov. 2 , however , Castro defeated Hernandez , and then turned his attention to Puerto Cabello , the last remaining stronghold of the Government troops . A formal blockade of the port was declared Nov. 2 . The United States Minister , Francis B. Loomis , last week asked the commanders of the British . French , German , and Dutch cruisers lying off Puerto Cabello to co-operate with Commander Hemphill of the Detroit to prevent Gen. Castro from bombarding the city by bringing moral pressure to bear upon him , and the United States Legation announced that it would protect the French Sisters of Charity by special request . PUERTO CABELLO , Venezuela Nov. 12 . ? Gen. Paredes , a former commander in the army of ex-President Andrade , who had refused the demand made upon him by Gen. Cipriano Castro and the de facto authorities to surrender the town , even when this was re-enforced by the request of the British , American . French , German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o'clock , after a terrible battle . The aspect of the city is one of ruin and devastation , and it is estimated that more than 050 persons were ' killed or wounded during the fighting . Gen. Ramon Guerra began a land attack upon the town and the position of Gen. Paredes on Friday night . Desultory fighting continued until Saturday morning about 4 , and then a fierce struggle ensued . Gen. Paredes made a stubborn defense , but Gen. Guerra forced an entrance into the town at 5 o'clock yesterday . As early as 8 o'clock Saturday morning the fleet arrived and began a bombardment , but the range was too great and the firing proved ineffective . Gen. Paredes held the fort on the hill and Fort Libertador until this morning . Dr. Braisted of the United States cruiser Detroit , and the Surgeons of the various warships in the harbor are ministering to the wants of the wounded . Puerto Cabello is a seaport and town of 10,000 inhabitants in the Province of Carabobo , Venezuela . about twenty miles northwest of Valencia . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from one-fourth of a mile to a mile in breadth , formed by a narrow coral ledge running out for two miles from the coast in a northerly and westerly direction . - The old town formerly lay on an island , which was once a coral bank , and was joined to the mainland by a bridge , but since 1850 the narrow channel lying between the old town and its more extensive suburbs ' Has been filled up and covered with buildings , so that Puerto Cabello new occupies a kind of headland projecting into the bay . Within six miles are four villages of from 200 to 1.500 inhabitants . The town is backed five miles in the interior by a range of mountains 3,000 feet high . On a high rock to the south is the Mirador of Solaro. or Castle of Puerto Cabello , which has often proved an obstacle to enemies advancing from the interior . The foreign trade of the port has been considerable . Its leading articles of export are coffee , cocoa , hides , goat and deer skins , fustic , woods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largest quantities Export has been chiefly to the United States and Germany . Before the bombardment the town had a large municipal building . a Custom House , hospital , charitable institutions . and a number of large and well-kept warehouses . STORY OF ANDRADE 'S FALL . Revolution Began in September  --  Hernandez Ve'as Its First Leader , but Castro Succeeded Him . Hostilities in the present revolution broke out during September of this year , although agitation had been on foot since the election of Ignacio Andrade , who was inaugurated as President March 1 , 1808 . Gen. Hernandez , the defeated candidate , began to attach the administration at once , and won many supporters , his cause being helped by various acts of President Andrade of a dictatorial nature . This latent agitation was brought to a climax Aug. 14 , when Hernandez and sixty-five other prominent politicians were arrested and imprisoned . Later 500 more were taken into custody . In the meantime Gen. Cipriano Castro , a partisan of Gen. Hernandez , had become involved in a dispute with Gen. Morales over the Governorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severe that 12,000 Federal troops had to be sent to subdue Castro . Castro then assumed the head of the general opposition to President Andrade , and his provincial rebellion became national . In a series of engagements during the latter part of August and September the insurgents were generally successful , although inferior in numbers , President Andrade 1 having some time previously raised the Federal army from a peace footing of 3,009 to 10,01:0 and 15,000 men . By the end of September the Venezuelan troops had concentrated at Caracas and Puerto Cabello , while the insurgents under Gen. Castro a-ere resting at Bejuma before advancing on Valencia . An armistice of five days for the conduct of peace negotiations was agreed to Oct. 4 , but Andrade 's overtures , the terms of which are unknown , failed completely . By Oct. 15 Castro was advancing upon the capital , and the people were rising against Andrade . A large portion of the Government troops , said to be those formerly commanded by Hernandez , refused to oppose the insurgents ' advance . In Caracas , Andrade was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue the fight . Gen. Castro was before the city by Oct . IS , and Andrade was forced to accent the insurgent leader 's ultimatum , which stipulated that Andrade should leave the country after turning the Government over to the Vice President , Victor Rodriguez . Early on the morning of the 20th , however , Andrade succeeded in escaping with 800 men to La Guayra , without first transferring his office to Rodriguez . The next day , after paying off Ms troops and delivering his munitions of war to the local authorities , he embarked from La Guayra for Maracaibo in a transport , accompanied by a gunboat . In the meantime Rodriguez had constituted himself Acting President at Caracas , and invited Gen. Castro to enter the capital with his troops . This Castro did on the 23d , being warmly welcomed by the inhabitants . He immediately assumed control of the Gov-I ernment and appointed a Cabinet , among its I members being Gen. Hernandez and other political prisoners whom he had liberated . The foreign Ministers at Caracas met at the American Legation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exiled President - cabled from Barbados to the commander at Puerto Cabello to hold out against the insurgents to the last extremity . Coro and Maracaibo soon surrendered to Gen castro 's forces , but a new difficulty arose in a revolt against him by Gen. Hernandez , whose agitation                     