@@707850

A broad ruling that no statute authorized court review of War Labor Board orders came today from the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia , in a unanimous decision by Associate Justices Justin Miller , Henry W. Edgerton , who wrote the opinion , and Thurman W. Arnold . Attorney General Francis Biddle called the decision " of first importance regarding the whole War Labor Board controversy . " He declared also that in the light of the decision some criticism in the McCarran report appeared " a somewhat hazardous judgment . " The Nevada Senator headed a judiciary subcommittee whose majority report sharply criticized Mr. Biddle 's rulings leading up to the seizure of Montgomery Ward 's Chicago properties by the Government A Government attorney interpreted the decision as putting the Government in a position to ask dismissal of every action brought against the board , among them five suits in the Federal District Court here by Montgomery Ward &; Co. for injunctions against enforcement of WLB orders . Delay in Ward Suit , In another action . the Appeals Court dismissed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District Court 's refusal to dismiss one of Ward 's injunction suits . The higher court said it could not bear the petition before October and the dismissal was without prejudice to reconsideration of the petition after Sept. 15 , In this case Ward 's seeks to enjoin the Government from enforcing a WLB order affecting its stores in Denver , Detroit and Jamaica , N. Y. The Government , without replying to the complaint , asked the court to dismiss the suit . When the court refused the Government sought a special appeal . The Appeals Court said there appeared to be no good reason why the case " can not be speedily heard and disposed of by the trial court . " Under normal circumstances the ruling would lead to a hearing in the lower court on the merits of the case . In the present circumstances , however , the Government may again seek dismissal , pointing to the decision that the courts are without authority to review WLB orders . Ruling in Major Decision In its major decision the Appeals Court held that the . President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not depend on any action by the board , and any board action in notifying the Chief Executive of non-compliance with its orders was " informatory and , at most , advisory . " The tribunal decided therefore that a demand that it annul a board order amounted " to a demand that we prevent the board from giving the President advice which appellants ( those who made the demand ) contend would be erroneous . " " The correctness of administrative advice can not be reviewed by the courts , " the opinion added . " They have neither the necessary authority nor the necessary qualifications for such work . " The court 's findings were on an appeal by the Employers Group of Motor Freight Carriers , Inc. , and , others representing some 300,1 trucking companies in Boston and , throughout New England . The board had ordered that they give their employes a pay increase of 52.75 per week and pay time and one-half for work of more than eight hours daily . Opinion of Appeals Court " It is clear and undisputed , " the court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board 's or- , ders . " The legislative history of the War Labor Disputes Act implies a positive intention that these orders should not be reviewed . Aside from that important and probably conclusive fact , the question is whether general equitable principles authorized review . We think they do not . " Appellants say in effect that if they do not comply with the order the board may notify the President of their noncompliance and the President may take possession of their plants and facilities . " We hate no occasion to decide whether in our opinion this is true . In some instances concerns which have failed to comply with board orders have ultimately been taken over by Presidential orders . In other instances concerns which have not been the subject of any board order have been taken over by Presidential orders . " If it be true , as appellants suggest , that the President may ultimately take possession of their plants and facilities , that possibil - lity is irrelevant not only because it is speculative but also because it is independent of the board 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broad statutory power of the President to take and use property in furtherance of the war effort depends upon any action of the War Labor Board . Any action of the board would be informatory and ' at most , advisory . ' " Appellouts ' demand that we annul and eajoin the board 's order therefore amounts to a demand that we prevent- the board from giving the President advice which appellants contend would be erroneous . A court might as well be , asked to prevent the Secretary of State or the Attorney General from giving alleged erroneous ad-1 vice . " The truckers ' group contended that the board 's findings were =-lawful and violated executive or ders of the President and also asserted that " the industry is confronted with outright failure and dissolution . " Statement by Biddle Attorney General Biddle 's statement stressed the opinion of the Appeals Court that " orders of the War Labor Board are not reviewable , " attacked the McCarran committee 's report on the Montgomery Ward dispute and discussed the court 's denial of the Government 's petition for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The opinion by Judge Edgerton points out ' it is clear and undisputed that no statute authorizes review of the War Labor Board 's order , ' that ' the legislative history of the War Labor Disputes Act implies a positive intention that these orders should not be reviewed . ' " The court examines the course of this legislation through the Congress , notes that proposed amendments to authorize court enforcement or review of the board 's orders were rejected and concludes that it was the obvious intention of , the Congress that the legislation did not authorize such applications to the courts . The opinion says , ' No one could maintain either judicial or administrative proceedings against the appellants upon the authority of the board 's orders . ' i " The decision has peculiar interest in the light of the fact that the McCarran report expressed the view that the Attorney General of the United States was in error in stating that all peaceful and orderly processes for the settlement of the Ward dispute had been exhausted at the time he advised the President of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to the McCarran report , a lower court decision , clearly overruled by the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case , resolved ' all questions of doubt as to whether the War Labor Board had the right to go into a Federal court and ask for a mandatory injunction to compel compliance with an order of the board ' " Hazardous Judgment " " In the light of present decision this assertion of the McCarran report that all doubts have been resolved by one lower court decision in conflict with two other lower court decisions , while an appeal was pending in the Circuit Court of Appeals , now appears a somewhat hazardous judgment to have been made without benefit of hearing the Attorney General . " The Supreme Court may of course review the issue , but the fact of the matter is that the legislative history leaves little doubt that it was Congress itself which had rejected any suggestion of court review or mandatory enforcement of War Labor Board orders . Congress rejected it because , as the court points out in its opinion , Congress was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be in the best interests of the country to permit the War Labor Board to function as it has in the past sixteen months without the right to apply to the court for legal sanctions and without being subject to court review of its decisions . ' " One final point of interest in the decision is the court 's answer to the argument that the President might take over the facilities involved in this case if the War Labor Board 's order was not complied with . The court said : ' Neither the broad constitutional power nor the broad statutory power of the President to take , and use property in furtherance of the war effort depends upon any action of the War Labor Board .. " '                     