@@716850

More than 1,000 persons hunted by sea , land , find air today for traces of a Belgian air liner that ? disappeared north of Rome last night . Twenty-nine persons , including four Americans and an Italian beauty contest winner , were aboard . The Roman manager for Sabena Belgian air lines said : " I believe the plane must have fallen into the sea . I fear there are no survivors . " The Sabena plane , a four engine DC-6 , vanished on a flight from Brussels , Belgium , to Leopoldville , Belgian Congo . A Message , Then Silence It was in radio contact with Rome 's Ciampino airport only 16 minutes before a scheduled landing there . " It is raining hard . but I think ? , " said a message . Then the plane 's radio went silent . The search centered in the Tyrrhenian sea coast after a , helicopter reported seeing " what looked like a pretty big oil smear " about 10 miles off the old Roman port of Civitavecchia . United States planes and Italian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Land Hundreds of national policemen , villagers , and farmers afoot , on horseback , or oil motorcycles had searched the Adriatic Sea NAP ES mountain area 27 miles north of Rome after two farmers told police that they saw a plane " falling in flames " last night near Viterbo . A search of the area by land and air disclosed nothing , altho snow that fell before dawn might have covered wreckage , The search was halted at dusk and will be resumed tomorrow . The plane carried 21 passengers and a crew of eight . Marcella Marlani , 20 , who was Miss Italy of 1953 , was aboard . Bad luck has dogged hei steps since she Won the beauty contest , She was , to represent Italy , in the Miss Europe competition in London last year but was stricken with appendicitis the day she was to leave Italy . A runner-up took her place . ? Americans Identified Miss Marian ' had been in Brussels for a film celebration and was returning to Rome for the opening of , a picture in which she had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identified by Sabena as Paul Leroy ' , 28 , Lake Hiawatha , N. J. ; Robert Singer , 80 , Brooklyn ; E. J. Suter , 48 , of near Brussels , and Mrs. G. Guerrieri , 27 , of Rome , Miss Marlini 's secretary , Leroy , a geologist for the Bear Creek Mining company , and . Singer , an engineer with Socony-Vacuum Oil company , were headed for Africa on business .                     