@@701150

France warned the League of Nations today that if it permitted the unilateral denunciation of international engagements there soon would be room only for a policy of force . This warning came in a memorandum explaining the French appeal under Article XI of the League covenant for the special Council session that will open tomorrow . The memorandum asks the Council to fix responsibility for the situation created by Germany 's denunciation of the Versailles treaty ban on compulsory military service and war aviation and to consider the consequences it entails , particularly regarding France 's security policy . France requests the Council to seek the most suitable measures for remedying this " grave situation " and safeguarding the future . The memorandum , dated " Paris , April 9 , " as though the Stresa conference had nothing to do with it , is firmer than had been generally expected . Everything still indicates that France is confining her real demands to preventive , not remedial , measures by the Council . French quarters here share the view of a Council member who remarked today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pact Advances . While awaiting the Stresa delegations , which arrived too late tonight for any talks , Maxim Litvinoff , Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union , and Dr. Eduard Benes , Foreign Minister of Czechoslovakia , are understood to have worked on the preparation of a Russo-Czech pact on lines practically the same as the Franco-Russian treaty . it Is understood this pact will not be pushed , to completion at this meeting but that after Foreign Minister Pierre Laval of France signs his pact in Moscow M. Benes will go there and sign his . Russia 's return to her historic role also was marked here today by 1 a luncheon that Nicolas Titulescu as president of the Little Entente and Balkan Entente gave for the members today , to which M. Litvinoff was invited . M. Titulescu told this predominantly Slavic family the results of his recent European tour . The reversal of the decision by Foreign Minister Joseph Beck of Poland not to attend the Council meeting is expected in League circles to allow the Council to move faster and adjourn Wednesday , but some fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even to " regret " unanimously the unilateral treaty denunciation . Poland 's refusal in September to execute her own treaty obligations regarding minorities was thus stigmatized then , and her persistence in this policy has now raised an acute problem , for the League is blocked by Poland 's silence on the important German petition regarding Polish land reform . Some ascribe Colonel Beck 's decision to come here to the need for shrewd manoeuvring in this tightening place , and others believe it is the result of the non-aggression offer from Foreign Minister Constantin von Neurath of Germany . The latter bears heavily but uncertainly on Memel , in which Poland is deeply interested . German Secrecy Stressed . The French memorandum is about 1,800 words long and begins by charging that Germany 's action was the culmination of long , methodical labors pursued in secret and is not so much an announcement as it is the definite achievement of a policy of rearmament . In proof it points to previous German denials of French charges in 1934 that Berlin 's war and air budgets showed that rearmament was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany had refused to admit she had more than a few experimental airplanes , Chancellor Hitler told Sir John Simon , British Foreign Secretary , that she already had attained parity with Great Britain . " Hence , " the note says , " the true value of the denials and declarations is clear , and the spirit that they reveal assumes its full significance . " The note holds the German acts are a definite infringement of certain fundamental clauses of Part V of the Versailles treaty and argues that it is the duty of the League of Nations to take cognizance of this policy which is " entirely contrary " to its principles . Then it points out that these German obligations were reaffirmed by Germany in entering the League and concludes that the Reich has deliberately destroyed one of the bases of its collaboration with Geneva . In so doing , the note continues , Germany has seriously compromised the success of the League 's disarmament negotiations . Here France strives to answer Germany 's argument in support of her action . She says all that can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposals to the conference . She recalls Germany 's departure from the conference and the League and emphasizes that , despite difficulties , negotiations on a basis that Germany had accepted were still continuing when Germany suddenly restored compulsory service . Warns of General Rearming . Germany 's decisions " incompatible as they are with any system for reduction of armaments , have raised a problem of general rearmament , in all its gravity , for Europe as a whole " and it is this situation on which France concludes that the Council must recommend to the governments what treaty policy they should now follow to consolidate European security . It gives reasons why the German method amounts " to abolishing the whole idea of contract and obligation in international relations . " It asks , " Is it worth while to continue with those efforts for collective security if It is to be agreed that the repudiation of a contractual undertaking , however solemnly entered into , involves no consequences other than that of moral reprobation ? " and also asks whether " a treaty-making State is to be encouraged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  