@@713750

Letters to The Times Chances of Attack Weighed Redoubled Efforts Asked to Prevent a Quick Conquest by Russia To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : THE NEW YORK TIMES has repeatedly warned against a let-down in the sense of urgency in our rearmament program . In your editorial of March 29 you call for " a mental readjustment , both in the Government and in the whole country , to a situation fraught * * * with danger of an immediate emergency * * i . " I believe the mental readjustment in public opinion would be greatly facilitated if the chances of a Russian or Russian-backed attack this year were clearly understood . During the four years from 1947 through 1950 Soviet Russia held in the palm of her military hand the most tempting prize in history  --  the easy conquest and occupation of two continents , Europe and Asia . Her hand was stayed by two factors : the American monopoly of the atomic bomb and the continued state of virtual disarmament of Western Europe and America . So long as the prize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Russia had no urgent need to move in , so she utilized the years gained to build her own atomic plants and to consolidate her vast post-war conquests . The year 1951 has brought two drastic changes : 1 . Soviet Russia is accumulating her own atomic stock piles in the expectation of having enough atomic bombs to retaliate against the United States and to terrorize Western Europe into abject neutralism. 2 . A gigantic program of rearmament has been started in earnest by the United States for herself and the allied world . Quick Conquest The Moscow Politburo realizes that its only chance to win the Third World War is to seize the resources of Western Europe by a quick contest . A year , or even six months , spent in the conquest of Western Europe would probably be fatal to the Politburo 's plans ; for it would give the United States and the British Commonwealth enough time to bring into Europe their existing forces and retard Soviet Russia until America 's overwhelming industrial potential were brought into full play . Such quick conquest of the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After that it will be too late . Soviet Russia has , therefore , but two choices : she must either renounce her unique opportunity for the conquest of Europe and Asia or she must seize it before the rearmament of the United States and Western Europe is substantially advanced . The choice is a difficult one for the Politburo realists to make . Even if Soviet Russia gives up her unique opportunity to seize Eurasia , she will be facing after 1952 the overwhelming might of the rearmed Western democracies , not to speak of the rising power of Germany and . Japan . True , she could guarantee herself against future aggression at the price of a revised United Nations , with real world disarmament , an effective international police force , and the liberation of her enormous spheres of influence in Eastern Europe and the Far East . This would assure lasting world peace . Hope for Peace It is evident , however , that the Politburo will renounce its historic design for a Communist World State and retreat behind her rightful frontiers only under the compulsion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American superiority in atomic weapons is still so decisive that Russia would lose the war even if she could temporarily seize Eurasia . This is our only hope for peace while we are rearming ; but even here there is a psychological probability that the Moscow rulers , tempted by the colossal prize of two continents and hard pressed by growing internal difficulties , may underrate our atomic power . It follows that the chances are at least one in three that Soviet Russia will attack during 1951 ; and if she attacks , it ' will probably be during the summer months rather than the spring months , when central Europe is a sea of mud . If Soviet Russia does not attack this summer , then the odds are five to one or better that the attack will be made next summer , when scores of atomic bombs will be added to her stock pile . Far from relaxing , we must redouble our efforts . Months wasted now in quibbling and legalistic discussions may well be paid for by generations of tears . ELY CULBERTSON . Chairman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York , April 5 , 1951 . Returning Morality to Government To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " Back to Right and Wrong " needed to be written . And let 's hope THE TIMES ' prestige carries its true and forthright message into high places . The Founding Fathers led their fellows , as indeed they should , in the virtues of dignity , intellect and morality , and imbued the people with their high principles . Now we witness the reverse : the people striving to put moral principles back into their Government . They cry to heaven that the God-given rules of right and wrong shall be the norm of governmental action  --  not politics or personalities . C. F. SMITH . Brooklyn , April 1 , 1951 . Apathy in Chicago Election To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : As an ex-New Yorker now residing in Chicago , I was most interested in your editorial of April 5 in reference to the Chicago mayoralty campaign and election . I believe the basic reason for the apparent apathy concerning the election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt that Mayor Kennelly had done an excellent job . Combined with this was the complete lack of color in Mr. Hunter , his Republican opponent . Incidentally , THE TIMES erred when it said no national issues were involved . Mr. Hunter 's entire campaign was based on national issues . His main point was that a vote for Mr. Hunter would be a vote against R. F. C. scandals , the Truman Administration , etc . Undoubtedly ' most of us felt that they had little place in a municipal election . Thus , the " apathy " was not so much apathy but rather a lack of contest . It was comparable to putting Joe Louis in the ring with a Singer Midget . Everyone was quite confident what the outcome would be . JUDSON H. SPENCER . Chicago , April 5 , 1951 . Study of Adolescents Asked Increased Knowledge of Youth Felt to Be of Value To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Considerable mention has been given recently in various columns and departments of THE NEW YORK TIMES to educational and adjustment problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is well that responsible adults are becoming increasingly aware of such things as poor educational facilities and poor teachers , and the " escape " mechanisms of some youth who turn to reckless driving , alcohol , or even narcotics . The prospect of a period of military service presents a new hurdle at an already difficult period of life . For many young men their military tour of duty may simply put in the deep freeze emotional and practical problems encountered in maturing to a responsible citizenship , even though they do mature in other ways in the service . Those problems will be faced anew when they return to civilian status . The period of adolescence is perhaps more complex and rigorous for youth in our society than in any other culture , of which we know . Each of us who is interested in this area takes a different approach , of course , to the general problem , as we ask different questions and bring to bear varied skills . As a student of social psychology for several years , I have had an opportunity to observe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separated parts of the country . I am appalled that in so many situations the young students are learning and maturing despite the efforts or techniques that their teachers use , rather than because of them . This is , of course , a very small aspect of the broader problem . A substantial amount of work has been done by various disciplines of the social sciences on the developmental problems of infants and small children . I would hope and suggest that we greatly accelerate our studies of the many facets of adolescent adjustment and growth in our society . Substantial grants from such organizations as the . Ford Foundation can be of tremendous value , and even Government support would be in the national interest . An increasing fund of knowledge about our nation 's youth in the hands of those who guide and lead them would be a solid brick in the structure of the society we are building . WILLIAM B. ALLEN . Cambridge , Mass. , April 1 , 1951 . The Case of Willie To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tams : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ links freedom of the press and fair trial in a way which brings the connection home again to us all . The sense of courage and possibility which this statement gives at once to everyone comes at a Moment when the issues of La Prensa are vivid , too , thanks to the first-rate piece of work THE TIMES has done on this story . I wonder whether these are not two parts of a work which might now be ready for its next step ? On the same page , near Justice Jackson 's opinion , THE TIMES carried the announcement of the new date set for the execution of Willie . The Mississippi Supreme Court says he shall die on May 8 . There seems to be more than a presumption of innoRenee on the part of Willie . Events seem to have crowded him to the death sentence in as wild a storm as that around the rape case of Lake County . The press , the place  --  both have played enormous parts here . The press can move into its brilliant function . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whatever the definition of guilt that has been forced on it . I hope that THE TIMES and its readers will look hard at the case of Willie . MURIEL RUKEYSER . New York , April 10 , 1951 Silencing Auto Horns To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It used to be rumored that there was somewhere in the world a small anonymous group who met quietly as a dinner club to invent improvements in living that were as advantageous as they were obvious , as , for example , daylightsaving time or the one-way street . Apparently this group is now operating in Turkey , where its most recent invention is now public : the prohibition of the use of automobile horns . Unthinkable as this may seem for less civilized portions of the world , it works . Few drivers wish to kill unwary pedestrians . Few wish to tangle fenders . For those who do not share these sentiments shouting is much more satisfying than blowing one 's horn . JOHN MARSHALL . Istanbul , Turkey , April 3 , 1951. 