@@726150

TIME : Daily thru March 5 . HOURS : 11 a. m. to 11 p. m . PLACE : International Amphitheater , 42d and Halsted streets . ADMISSION : Adults , 31 ; children 12 and under , 50 cents . EXHIBITS : More than 450 individual cars and trucks , import models , and experimental vehicles . Fifty displays devoted to accessories and allied equipment , plus special institutional displays . TRANSPORTATION : The Amphitheater is minutes from Chicago 's Loop and easily accessible by car , bus , or taxi . Ample parking on west side of exhibition hall . TELEVISION : An exclusive telecast of the auto show will be presented on WGN-TV Channel 9 tomorrow from 5:30 to 7 p. m . BY JOHN The 59th annual Chicago Automobile show , stocked with more new models than ever before , opens a nine-day run in the International Amphitheater today . Mayor Daley will participate in opening ceremonies at 10:45 a. m . The show will start at 11 o'clock . Before the doors close next Sunday , half a million show-goers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 848,031 ? set last year in McCormick Place - will not be reached . However , this year 's classic has all the trademarks of its predecessors : Every new domestic car , a host of import makes , dozens of trucks and campers , plus the girls who promote the exhibits . Preview Is Held More than 25,000 industry representatives and guests attended a special preview last night . Detroit has pulled out all the stops to make the ' 67 show more spectacular than ever . There seems to be an experimental model in almost every exhibit . These so-called " dream cars " are used to test public reaction . Favorable reviews from the public can turn these idea cars into production realities . In the American Motors exhibit , for example , is the AMX III , a sporty fastback station wagon which is a cousin of the AMX , a sports coupe which reportedly will be coming out in the 1968 model year . Shows Mach II Ford 's show cars include the Mach II , a sleek sports car which might some day be built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ford also is showing the Ranger II , a futuristic pickup truck . The Dodge exhibit is evidence that the auto show is for the whole family . On hand is , a caricaturist who will do free portraits of showgoers , and Dave Pearson , a national champion stock car driver . As a service to showgoers , Chicago-area Chevrolet dealers are running free shuttle buses between downtown and the show today and tomorrow . The buses will take two routes . 0 n e leaves Union station and stops at the North Western station before going to the Amphitheater . The other route starts at the Trailways bus depot on Randolph street and makes a pickup at the La Salle street station . Buses will leave every 10 minutes from 11 a. m. to 11 p. m. ' on both days .                     