@@745050

It appears that some ingenious person has invented a method of producing bees of almost any desired size . If two cells , each one of which contains an embryo bee , are knocked into one , the two bees are consolidated , and the result is a new bee double the usual size . Of course , if this can be done there is practically no limit to the size of possible bees . By knocking four cells into one a bee four times the usual size can be made , and if an entire hive of embryo bees is subjected to this consolidating process we should have a bee about the size of a turkey  --  a size hitherto attained only by one species of bee , known as the Presidential bee , an insect inhabiting the bonnets of eminent statesmen , and never by any chance producing honey . Before recklessly undertaking to enlarge our bees we ought to ascertain what effect their increase of size will have upon their power and disposition to make honey . The bumble-bee is much larger than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An insect so dull that he fancies that " bumble " is spelled with an " h , " and so lazy that he makes less honey in a whole season than a honey'bee makes before breakfast on a Spring morning , is by no means a model . ' It may be suggested that the bumblebee 's lack of success in manufacturing honey is due not to laziness , but to the inability of his wings to carry with ease the weight of his body ; but no one who has been chased by an angry bumblebee will entertain this suggestion . It may also be suggested that the trousers pockets of the bumble-bee are so small that he cancarry very little honey in them ; but there is no evidence that this is the case . We simply know that the bumble-bee is bigger than the honey-bee , and makes less honey . So , too , the wasp and the hornet are bigger than the honey-bee , and they make only enough honey for their bare necessities . Evidently the rule of nature has hitherto been that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if the honey-bee , after being developed into a two or three pound insect , is going to imitate the laziness of the bumble-bee , what shall we have gained ? No one will care to have a score of big , lazy bees dawdling about his premises , upsetting furniture and children by flying against them and tripping people up by concealing themselves in the grass . We shall have to go armed . with big clubs to keep off the bees , and though some sport may be obtained by shooting bees on the wing , there would be no sport whatever should the bees undertake to hunt the sportsman with stings capable of penetrating anything less than an inch of chilled steel armor . Even if the mammoth bees should make honey in quantities proportioned to their size , we should have no use for such a vast amount of honey . It is true that honey is used to a small extent in the arts , and that when one has a personal enemy addicted to buckwheat cakes a horrible revenge can be obtained by sending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with them . Still , there is no such demand for honey as would justify an effort to largely increase its production . Our bees are very well as they are . If a hive is kept on a shelf over the front door , and upset on a book agent , the bees will perform as much work as is necessary . To upset a hive of four-pound bees , in like circumstances , would be simply murder , and would in many cases involve the trouble of a trial and acquittal in a court of law . It might be well to keep large bees in Cincinnati for the encouragement of jurors , and of respectable citizens who call meetings at which people are incited to rioting ; but in this region we are satisisfied with our local bees , and will decline to have them enlarged .                     