@@740550

The accused , who had been an engineer in the navy , was soon arraigned for trial , and during the proceedings it was both attempted to proye an alibi and to show that the prisoner was insane . Witnesses proved conclusively the presence of the accused with the deceased but a few minutes before her death , and his absence immediately afterward . The jury , after due deliberation , brought in a verdict of murder in the first degree . During the trial , several physicians were called to give their opinion as to the accused 's insanity . The weight of their testimony , however , was against him , and immediately after conviction the mother of the condemned proceeded to Harrisburg several times , and importuning Gov . CURTIN so vehemently to save , her son 's life on the ground of alleged insanity , the Executive at last was so moved by the appeals to his sympathy and love of justice that he appointed a commission of three physicians to examine into and report upon the actual state of the mind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was insane , and consequently the Governor never signed his death-warrant , and he was allowed to remain in prison . About a year after CHAMPION had been incarcerated symptoms of consumption began to be evinced , and as the disease grew worse Dr. SMITH told the unfortunate man that unless he secured his freedom and obtained plenty of fresh air and exercise he would soon die . Then CHAMPION instructed his mother , who frequently visited him , not any longer " to use the crazy dodge and ' prattle about insanity , for that was all nonsense and a farce , but to appeal to the Governor for liberation on the ground of fast-failing health and the near approach of death . " But the Governor had no inclination to further interfere , and so CHAMPION was lelt to his fate . Under the confinement he gradually wasted away . On Sunday night he breathed his last , and an evening or two before he sent for Dr. BENJAMIN F. BUTCHER , the assistant physician of the prison . and said to him that as he believed death was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear confession to him , so that the world - might know all the facts bearing upon the unfortunate affair . He commenced by saying that he had loved the girl , MAGGIE CARNEY , most dearly . Others courted her society , and this rendered him jealous  --  and more than jealous . It maddened him to desperation . When she left the city and went to Mount Holly , he followed her thither and caused her to return to the city . Hero he again pressed her to become his wife . But to this she would not yield . She had fallen , but he loved Her madly , and to live without her as his own he felt to be an impossibility . So , while bordering on a state of frenzy , he accompanied her , as on former occa ? sions , to her chamber in one of the upper rooms of the dwelling on Eleventh-street , at the corner of Mark's-lane , and while they were-seated together he placed his arm round her neck and produced a concealed razor , which he instantly drew across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ torrent , and in a moment she fell back pale and lifeless . He had a pistol in his possession , which he intended using . With it he- was going to take his own miserable life . His hand quivered , and his courage to do so iorsook him . Then qUickly and by stealth he left the house to seek a grave beneath the river 's surface ; but again he could not face the King of Terrors . After proceeding several squares he grew so faint that he could proceed no further , and he sought rest at the house of a relative in the neighborhood .  - -  While here he was , overtaken by the officers of justice , who were close on his track . Among his last sayings were some tender words kindly breathed for the poor girl whom he murdered . He said that he often prayed for his MAGGIE , and it was his ardent hope and earnest belief that he would meet her in heaven . Thus ended the career of NEWTON CHAMPION . He was a young man of more than ordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trusted by his brother officers . During the trial many of them exerted themselves to their utmost to secure his acquittal , but his offense was so gross and palpable , without the least shadow of justification or excuse , that , in accordance with the evidence , the jury , with a full regard for their oaths , could not have rendered a verdict different from that which they gave , and which branded him as a murderer , and would have consigned him to the gallows , but for the report of the Commission of Lunacy , which reported him to have been of unsound mind , and consequently , in the eye of the law , not responsible for the dark deed which he . committed . At the time of the sad occurrence , NEWTON , who was evidently not more than thirty years of age , resided with his mother in the vicinity of Thirteenth and Ogden streets . The ? prison authorities , immediately upon the death of CHAMPION , turned the body over to his relatives for burial . 