@@709950

Mayor O'Dwyer will be back at his desk at City Hall today to face , for the third time since he took office on Jan. 1 , a threat by the Transport Workers Union , CIO , to call a strike on the municipal subway , elevated , street car . and bus lines . The Mayor , who cut short his vacation at El Centro , Calif. , because of the transit crisis , is due at Grand Central Terminal at 9:23 A. M. , aboard the Commodore Vanderbilt . It was disclosed last night that Mayor O'Dwyer , during his journey eastward , was kept fully advised of all developments in the situation . He has been informed of the 2-to-1 decision of the Board of Transportation on Friday , rejecting all recommendations of his Advisory Transit Committee favoring collective bargaining elections among the 33,000 employes of the city transit system . He also has been advised of the union 's threat to call a strike unless its demands for payment of $6,000,000 in retroactive pay rises and for collective bargaining elections are met before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TWU membership is scheduled to take a strike vote at meetings to be held at 8 P. M. on Wednesday and 10:30 A. M. on Thursday . Officers of the union will confer tonight at S P. M. at union headquarters , 153 West Sixty-fourth Street , with 300 delegates representing CIO locals in various trades and industries . These groups will cooperate with the TWU in plans for support of a strike , if one should be called . The Mayor 's administrative aides will have ready for his study today their reports on developments in the transit situation during the last two weeks . Chief among these reports will be one by Deputy Mayor Thomas L. J. Corcoran , who conferred last week with Councilman Michael J. Quill , international president of the TWU ; Austin Hogan , head of the New York City local ; and Douglas L. , international secretary-treasurer . This group advised Mr. Corcoran of the union 's position in the controversy over back pay and collective bargaining erections . Harry Sacher , counsel for the TWU , assailed yesterday the statement issued on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be illegal to permit collective bargaining elections among employes of the municipal transit system . Charles P. Gross , chairman of the board , endorsed Mr. Sullivan 's statement . " That opinion on the alleged illegality of collective bargaining elections for city transit workers , " Mr. Sacher said , " was handed down by a lawyer who has n't practiced for twenty-five years and a former Army officer who is n't a lawyer . " Mr. Sacher declared that it was significant that the opinion was not backed by similar findings by Corporation Counsel John J. Bennett and Harold L. Warner , counsel for the Board of Transportation . Neither Mr. Bennett nor Mr. Warner , it is understood , was asked for an opinion . Officers of the TWU have asserted that it was understood , when a transit strike was averted last February , that the Mayor 's Advisory Transit Committee would be a fact-finding agency whose recommendations would be accepted by all parties to the controversy . Several of the Mayor 's aides in labor matters , who declined to be quoted in advance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding . It was definitely understood , the ' said , Reproduced with permission of the that it would be for the . Board of Transportation to make a final decision on the committee 's recommendations , with due regard for all legal questions involved . Mayor 's Statement Recalled The formal statement issued by Mayor O'Dwyer when the February strike threat was quieted made no reference to any understanding that the committee 's findings would be binding upon anyone , including the Board of Transportation .. Supreme Court Justice James B. M. is expected to rule soon on the contention of the Citizens Budget Commission that payment of $6,000,000 in back pay under the increased rates approved by the Board of Transportation would be illegal under provisions of the State Constitution . On Nov. 4 the board adopted the higher wage rates recommended by the Mayor 's committee , but withheld action on making them retroactive to July 1 . Payment of the retroactive wage rises in advance of final court ruling on the legality of such action , it was pointed out , might expose the three members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expended , should the court decision hold that retroactive pay was illegal . Former Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia injected himself into the situation in his weekly commercial radio broadcast . He declared that the " 33,000 transit workers " were promised all the terms and conditions that were in the report of the Mayor 's committee . " He added the opinion that State law forbade collective bargaining elections for city employes under civil service . " That should warn city officials , " he declared , " not to make rash promises that later on they can not fulfill . " The report of the Mayor 's committee recommended retroactivity of pay rises if legally possible , and expressly declared " that such retroactivity is necessarily contingent on the board 's power to make retroactive payments , on which point the committee does not pass . " Likewise , in its recommendation for " sole negotiation " based on , bargaining elections , the committee made that proposal contingent upon the legality of such procedure , without itself attemping to pass upon the legal question . Transportation Commissioner William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that any collective bargaining election would be illegal , conceded that he was doubtful of the legality of an election to determine sole bargaining power , in the form recommended by the committee . He was unwilling to vote for that procedure , he . said , until after the court , , upheld its validity . A spokesman for the Board of Transportation suggested that it would be possible to set up a system of " plural negotiation , " based on priority hearings for employe groups in the order of their numerical strength without holding a bargaining election .                     