@@705850

An oil industry spokesman today cast cold water on the Senate gasoline investigating committee 's hope that the East Coast gasoline shortage is to be immediately solved by the use of railroad tank cars . C. F. Dowd , Traffic Manager of the Tidewater Associated Oil Company and Chairman of the industry 's Tank Car Committee , told the committee that railroad experts ' estimate that 20,000 railway tank cars are immediately available to take the place of tank ships transferred to Britain is " excessive . " The estimate was given the committee by J. J. Pelley , President of the Association of American Railroads ! and concurred in by Ralph Budd , Defense Transportation chief . Mr. Dowd 's committee , meeting ! here yesterday , persuaded railroad I officials to allow them new low rates on tank cars . High cost of rail transportation and a lack of loading facilities have constituted a stumbling block to the use of tank cars to alleviate the shortage thus I far . At the close of Mr. Dowd 's testimony , Senator Francis Maloney ( D ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " disappointed " that the oil spokesman had not given the committee shipment by tanker , must result in the same encouragement that came a very substantial increase in trans- ' , portation costs , " the oil companies'i from Mr. Pe ! ley and Mr. Budd . statement said . " It impresses us as Mr . Dowd assured the senators being only fair that the railroads that the oil industry would use should , in these circumstances , 1 whatever cars were available and make some substantial contribupointed out that even 15,000 cars tion " would supply the 175,000 barrel The companies said they would daily shortage , set by Ralph K. not ask OPACS to sanction any Davies , Deputy Petroleum Admin- price increase on account of inistrator. creased transportation costs " until Later in the day , the committee appropriate showing has been made was told by Leon Henderson that in justification thereof . " tended . Mr , Henderson advocated pipeline construction as general national defense policy but said he would reserve judgment on the specific line proposed from East Texas to Bayonne , N. J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We can not be too cautious in this emergency  --  and you ca n't sink a pipeline , " he told the committee . To the committee the East Coast gasoline shortage had appeared ' virtually ended last night follow-1 ing agreement between the railroads and the oil industry to a flat ! 25 per cent slash in railroad , freight rates for gasoline and fuel ! oil and cuts up to 50 per cent for crude oil . The agreement , arrived at after 12 hours of consultation here , means that 20,000 idle tank cars can now be put into service to replace tank ships loaned to Britain i without adding materially to the cost of gasoline and fuel oil to the consumer . Without special concession from the railroads , gasoline transported entirely by rail would cost about 212 cents more per gallon than if shipped by tanker , Mr. Budd estimated yesterday before the Senate gasoline investigating committee . Also achieved at the meeting was a formal pledge from the 11 principal East Coast oil companies agreeing to " press into service all available tank cars as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies and moved by the railroads , within the physical limitations as to trackage , unload- ; ing facilities , storage , etc. that exist . They agreed that increased costs per barrel of petroleum products by tank car transportation over tanker rates shall be shared equitably by the 11 companies under a plan to be developed by the Office of Petroleum Co-ordinator . Reductions in rates agreed upon by the railroads and oil companies must be approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission before they become effective , but officials of that agency have already indicated that they will institute such changes immediately , " It is obvious that mass movement of civde oil and products by tank car , as against the ' normal Jersey , the Texas Company , At-1 lantic Refining Company , SoconyVacuum Oil Company , Tidewater Associated Oil Company , Cities Service Company , Consolidated Oil Company , Sun Oil Company , American Oil Company and the Shell Oil Company .                     