@@686050

Through a sudden and unexplained change of plans the first of Senator Harding 's promised conferences on international relations with the ? " best minds of the country , " originally scheduled to begin next Monday , was held today . Charles Evans Hughes , League-with-reservations advocate , and Colonel George Harvey , editor of Harvey 's Weekly and bitter League opponent , consulted with the Presidentelect . Secrecy marked the conference . Mr. Hughes , the- announcement of whose coming was not released from Senator Harding 's office until this morning , arrived from New York at breakfast time . Colonel Harvey 's arrival today was a surprise to all- , apparently , except ? the President-elect . He reached Senator Harding 's house soon after 10 o'clock this . morning , . after the Senator and Mr. Hughes had been closeted ' for two hours . Senator Harding left Marion with his guests at noon for Columbus and luncheon with Harry M. Daugherty and Theodore Burton , - former Senator from Ohio , and Representative-elect . Before leaving Marion Mr. Hughes prepared and issued a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inference to be drawn from today 's conferences is that Senator Harding intends keeping his own counsel as ' to his visitors ' recommendations on foreign policies to be followed by the next Administration . One of his campaign pledges was to confer with men and women of all parties prominent in the discussion of the League of Nations issue in the endeavor to formulate a plan for an association of nations agreeable to all factions , to be submitted to the Senate and foreign powers . It is Senator Harding 's apparent policy to keep secret the topics of discussion , so that his visitors may talk to him in full freedom and without knowledge of what others with contrasting views have said . A few moments before the Presidentelect 's departure for Columbus , word came from his office that the Senator and Mr. Hughes would see newspaper correspondents . " This is all I care to say , " Mr. Hughes said , and then read the following statement prepared in his own handwriting : " We have been talking over the important questions which are pressing for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be considered in the light of conditions which are constantly changing . The solution will , of course , be found in harmony with Senator Harding 's statements in the course of the campaign . It was moat gratifying to have this interview . " Neither Senator Harding nor Mr. Hughes would add to the statement the latter had read . With Mr. Hughes 's statement carrying the admission that he had discussed with the President-elect international questions ? ? in the light of conditions which are constantly changing , " there is speculation here whether Mr. Hughes 's views on the League have ben modified by Argentina 's withdrawal and by Canada 's insistence upon the elimination of Article X. Further interest was aroused by the coincidence of the arrival of Colonel Harvey . It was recalled that when Colonel Harvey was last in Marion . advising Senator Harding the N. cc k before the Senator 's speech on international relations , Aug. 28 . Mr. Hughes spent a day here , but was seen little in the Colonel 's company . ? Colonel Harvey will be Senator Harding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned tonight whether he would remain here until the arrival of Herbert Hoover next Sunday . Senator Harding and his guests lunched at the Scioto Country Club at Columbus with Harry M. Daugherty and Thee-lore E. Burton , one-time member of the League to Enforce Peace . Mr. Hughes left Columbus this afternoon for New York on the same train with Mr. Daugherty. who plans to be in Washington tomorrow . Senator Harding , with Colonel Harvey . made up a foursome with Judge Henderson and Mr. Jefferies of Columbus for a round of the Scioto Country Club 's course this afternoon before returning to Marion . Having lunched with Mr. Burton , who has written extensively on conditions in the Pacific , Senator Harding attended a private dinner tonight at the Marion Y. M. C. A. in honor of Fletcher Brockman . Assicoate General Secretary of the organization and for fifteen years National Secretary of the Y. M. C. A. in China . Through his organization Mr. Brockman had important relations with Eastern Governments and officials , and he is a recognized authority on political and other relations in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tonight 's dinner in response to a suggesion from Henry C. - Wallace of Des Moines , editor of Wallace 's Farmer , who has been mentioned in Cabinet gossip as head of the Department of Agriculture . It was said that Mr. Wallace wrote Senator Harding telling of Mr. Brockman 's visit to Marion . In the . last few weeks Mr. Brockman has been speaking at private dinners in various ) arts of the country on Far Eastern conditions . Elmer Dover , former Secretary of the Republican National Committee and during the last campaign Pacific Coast manager , arrived today for a conference with Senator Harding . The President-elect telegraphed today to the Secretary of the Gridiron Club at Washington , regretting he could not attend the club 's annual dinner tomorrow night . Senator Harding sent his cordial greetings and good wishes to the members of the club and their guests . COLUMBUS , Ohio . Dee . 10 ( Associated Press ) . ? Harry M. Daugherty , pre-convention campaign manager for Senator Harding , tonight denied published statements that he had accepted the post of Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not discuss Cabinet appointments without Senator Harding 's permission . BOSTON . Der . 10 . ? A conference between President-elect Harding and Governor Coolidge , Vice President-elect , to be held at the Senator 's hone Marion , on Dee . le . was announced at the Governor 's office late today . The nature of the conference was not revealed , but it is said to have been requested by Senator Harding . Governor Coolidge will leave Boston Dee . lei and return on the 17th . Mrs. Coolidge will accompany him and will be the guest of Mrs. Harding .                     