@@668450

New versions of liquid protein diets may offer a safe way for overweight people to shed pounds quickly without running the risk of dangerous heart complications that were originally linked to such diets . In 1977 , when this approach to weight loss became an instant fad as " the last-chance diet , " a number of deaths were associated with it . Essentially , the diet amounts to a fast - eating nothing - except for a few ounces of a liquid protein mix that is very low in calories . Studies of some of the fatal cases revealed that the severity of the diet disrupted the normal pumping action of the heart . When some extreme dieters apparently ate even less of the liquid protein that was indicated , part of their heart muscle was consumed , just as it would be during starvation . These dangers to the heart , however , can be eliminated , it was reported here , by fortifying the liquid protein mixes with generous amounts of noncaloric but essential dietary substances such as vitamins , minerals , fatty acids and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new " enriched " liquid protein mix which already has been successfully tested on obese volunteers in a University of Rochester Medical Center ( New York ) study was presented here yesterday at the Science Writers Forum of the American Heart Assn . Dr. Dean H. Lockwood , chief of endocrinology at the Rochester center and director of the study , emphasized that obesity remains a serious health problem in the United States . Currently , an estimated 45 percent of adult Americans weigh at least 20 percent more than they should . That much extra weight greatly increases the risk of diabetes , hypertension , heart and blood vessel diseases , gall stones and unexpected death . Yet , traditional dieting - the reduction of calories to 1000 or so per day - has been a dismal failure , he noted . " Of those people who need to lose 20 to 40 pounds , only 20 percent succeed even temporarily on standard calorie restriction diets , " Lockwood said . Far fewer , only 5 percent of those who need to lose 40 pounds or more do so on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to tell people that they should lose weight unless you can also tell them how to do it , " Lockwood said . Fasting , however , supplemented with 300 to 500 calories of protein - eaten either as food or as a liquid protein mix - has proved remarkably successful as a quick means of weight loss . About 80 percent of people who are 40 pounds or more overweight when they begin such fasts succeeed in losing the extra pounds . During such diets loss of muscle is minimized , while loss of fat is maximized , Lockwood said , because the protein that is eaten spares the bodyfrom consuming its own muscle protein . The modifications that Lockwood designed for the liquid protein mix used during fasts insure that all essential dietary elements are included in 100 percent to 150 percent of the established minimum daily requirements . This includes not only vitamins and minerals but also essential fatty acids and trace elements of metals such as selenium . " The selenium was added , " he said , " because a deficiency of this element is known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Although Lockwood ' s version of the dietary liquid contains almost 500 calories , the weight loss of the volunteers was almost exactly the same as those on 300-calorie liquids - 13 percent of their initial weight within 40 days . A full report on Lockwood ' s study , including the ingredients of the modified liquid protein mix , will be published next April in medical journals . After that , he said , he expected that commercial manufacturers of the liquid protein mixes would incorporate the recipe into their products .                     