@@691150

In a communication sent today to the Federal Trade Commission Attorney General Stone asserts that the Aluminum Company of America has violated provisions of the dissolution decree handed down by the Federal courts , and has practiced Price control . " With respect to some of the practices complained of , " the letter says , " they were so frequent and long continued , the fair inference is the company was either indifferent to the provisions of the decree or knowingly intended that its Provisions should be disregarded , with a view to suppressing competition in the aluminum industry . " The Attorney General informed the commission that , as its reports threw very little light on the methods of the Aluminum Company qince 192Z , he had decided a further invdstlgation by GOYernment agents would be necessary , that the Department of Justice might act with full knowledge of the course of the company up to the present time . Reference was made by the Attorney General to opinions of the Department of Justice relative to the validity of certain practices involved in other house-hold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the General Electric and Westinghouse companies ' cases , already submitted to the court , and the mining machineries cases , soon to be heard , In which the validity of the pooling agreements is opposed by the Government . Promises Action on Washing Machines . In this connection Mr. Stone added : " If the department is right in its contentions , then the pooling of the washing machine patents . under the agreements set out in your report is unlawful , and appropriate action will be promptly taken . It will be necessary . however , before any action can be taken to bring the commission 's investigation down to date , as the report dealt only with conditions up to 1022 . " Other " industry Investigations " conducted by the Trade Commission mentioned by the Attorney General were association activities of hardware dealers , miscellaneous kitchen furnishing industries , manufacturers of household brooms and brushes , sewing machine industry , brush manufacturers ' association , refrigerator industry and the vacuum cleaner manufacturers ' association . In an announcement made at the Department of Justice are these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aluminum Company of America : " The Attorney General views the commission 's report on the Aluminum Company and other concerns engaged in the manufacture of cooking utensils as embracing two phases of the industry ? cppetitive conditions and the decree a nst the Aluminum Company . Reviewing the first phase  --  competitive conditions  --  the scope of activities of the thirty companies engaged in the manufacture of spun and stamped aluminum ware , the conclusion is reached that " the Aluminum Company of America at present controls more than 90 per cent of all known deposits of bauxite in North America that are of such character that aluminum can be manufactured therefrom in commercial quantities . Having this practically complete control of the sources of supply of the raw material , it is in a position to , and does . control the domestic price of sheet aluminum to utensil manufacturers . " Charges Violations of Decree . " After reviewing the provisions of the decree against the Aluminum Compapy of America and the character of complaints by competitor companies , the Attorney General avers that it is sufficient to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less extent ' the recited complaints of competitors . and it is apparent , therefore , that during the time covered by your report the Aluminum Company of America violated several provisions of the decree . " A good deal of comment was heard in official circles over the Attorney General 's references to violations of law by the Aluminum Company , a corporation in which Secretary Mellon , Mr. Stone 's fellow Cabinet officer , is alleged to be a heavy stockholder . In the recent campaign charges were made by the Democratic National Committee that the Aluminum Company had been favored with preferential tariff rates , and in this connection the name of Secretary Mellon was freely used by Democratic orators . The department 's announcement in respect to other investigations conducted by the Federal Trade Commission is summarized as follows : " The alleged ' blacklisting ' practices of broom corn dealers , detailed in the commission 's report , have been changed , the Attorney General states , adding . In connection with broom manufacturers , that ' about the only successful effort of the association Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manufacture of brooms . ' " Concerning the activities of the Broom Handle Manufacturers ' Association . the ' report of the activities of this association seems to have closed with the year 1922 . Before it can be determined whether its present activities are such as to fall within the condemnation of the anti-trust acts it will be necessary to bring the investigation up to the present time . ' Sewing Machine Makers Immune . " There is nothing in the sewing machine indukrY at the present time upon which to base a complaint under the anti-trust acts , the Attorney General avers , adding that ' if anything of that character has existee. in the past the statute of limiations has long since run against a prosecution for any illegal conduct . ' - Reviewing the refrigerator industry repor Mr. Stone says : ' " It is proper for me to say that during the past year theAZpecia.1 Agents of the Department of Justice have made a thorough investigation of the refrigerator industry . A summary report has recently ipeen i This report , with reports of nvestigations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completion appropriate action will be taken by the department . ' ' Analyzing in considerable detail the commission 's findings with relation to the Vacuum Cleaner Manufacturers ' Association , it is the view of the department that this association was composed of licensees under the Kenny patents : that these patents were basic patents of the industry and that they expired March 19 , 1924 . " With respect to resale prices there is not shown any concert of action be tween the different manufacturers upon this point . Each had his own prices for his cleaners , which were not uniform as I between manufacturers , and each tried to have his fixed prices maintained by his dealers , and this fact alone would not violate the Sherman act . " " The commission 's report upon the vacuum cleaner Industry does not seem to have been brought down beyond the year 1922 , and the Attorney General is of the opinion that ' unless it can be shown that the members of the association have adopted some new methods , such as the establishing of a patent pool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or similar scheme since the close of your investigation , there does not appear to be sufficient in your report to justify the conclusion that this association still exists , or is employing methods in violation of the Anti-Trust law . ' Bits at Washington Machine Industry . " Mr. Stone concurs in the conclusion of the commission relative to the washing machine Industry that the combining Of competing patents by large and financially strong competing manufacturers , accompanied by the legal rights of patent owners under existing patent laws to control production and fix the price at which the patented article is to be sold , constitutes a combination no less dangerous to the consuming public than a monopoly created by acquisition of competitors or agreements among competitors in restrain of trade , which are condemned by the anti trust laws . " But , at the same time . " he adds , " the basic patent in the industry was the Stocking-Mendenhall patent , which expired June /4 , 1921 , and that patent was owned by the Iowa Washing Machine Company , and if that company was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patent , more than . three years having elapsed since that time , a prosecution would be barred and a court would not restrain acts no longer committed. - " The real ' vice ' in the washing machine industry consists , it Was said , in the pooling of patents owned by the Maytag Syndicate anti the National Household Devices Company , and in forcing other manufacturers to secure a license under them . ? ? ? These so-called pooling contracts seem to have been drawn in the light of the opinions of the courts in the National Harrow case , the seeded raisin case and the rubber tire wheel case . The department has taken the position that these so-called pooling contracts go beyond the limits of the patent right , as stated in those cases , and suits were brought by the department some months ago against certain combinations , attacking the validity of such ggreemercts. , "                     