@@707150

WASHINGTON , May ** amendment to the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act , sponsored by Senator Danaher of Connecticut and affixed to the statute in committee by a combination of Republicans and Democrats , is the most innocent-appearing paragraph that was ever devised to scuttle a legislative ship or cut a legislative throat . It seems merely to state the obvious , to emphasize the coordinate powers of Congress in a time when popular opinion favors the reassertion of these powers after a long period of prodigal loans to the Executive . The Danaher amendment , so far as its language goes , simply provides that the President , or Congress by joint resolution , six months after the President proclaims the end of the war may terminate any trade agreement en-1 tered into between the United States and any other natoin . Congress . of course , always possesses the power to repeal all or any part of a statute , and this includes the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act . Congress may pass such a statute one day and repeal it the next , and one Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form would not necessarily disturb the legal tenure of agreements previously made , its effect would be to kill them in operation and prevent the making of any others . This being so . what is the real purpose of the Danaher amendment and why did Secretary Hull and Chairman George of the Senate Finance Committee unite in the statement that it will emasculate the entire trade agreements program ? Answer to the issue The answer , by the consensus of those who have been most active in Making the pacts with other countries , is simple and easily demonstrable : ( 1 ) There is an influential Republican group which has never accepted the theory of the Hull ' agreements and hopes to return after the war to that economic nationalism , best expressed in the Smoot-Hawley tariff law , which many charge with large responsibility in bringing on the present conflict between the have and have-not nations . This group is counting on a Republican victory in 1944 and wishes to be ready to junk the reciprocal agreements program and the twenty-nine pacts already made . The Danaher amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity arises . ( 2 ) There are Democrats in Congress who , fearing the growth of executive power and anxious to weaken it against the fourth-term drive , seize upon any chance that presents itself to delimit that power . Their support of the Danaher amendment is not aimed at Secretary Hull or his economic policies ; it is a blow at the scope of executive authority . ( 3 ) Mr. Hull 's program is not unpopular in Congress , and the Secretary himself enjoys more respect and admiration , and wields more influence , at the Capitol than any other member of the Administration . Therefore , a frontal attack on his trade agreements act would fail . Accordingly , the Danaher amendment was fixed on to accomplish the same eventual purpose , but on the flank and in disguise . Peril to Whole Pro , : am ( 4 ) Its adoptionyould emasculate the program because ( a ) it would be undoubtedly taken as notice by twenty-nine nations , some of them partners in the war against the Axis , that a change in the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the program . ( b ) This would be tantamount to notifying them that , as soon as the war is won with their help , the most powerful economic nation in the world intends to return to the Smoot-Hawley policy . ( c ) That would mean the restoration of embargo rates against these nations , calling for restoration on their part of the barriers and other discriminations against our exports which Mr. Hull through his agreements has gradually been eliminating . The world would go back to the economic policies of the early Nineteen Thirties . ( 5 ) So far as new agreements are I concerned , if any can be negotiated ! during the war , the conferees would meet under a Congressional sword of Damocles . That is not a very hopeful decoration for conference rooms . And meanwhile the existence of the Danaher amendment in the law would begin to sap the vital qualities of the agreements now in ' operation . That is the case which supporters of the Secretary and his program make against the Danaher amendment . This correspondent has put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and they agree that the effects abroad would probably be as forecast . In reply , advocates of the amendment say the post-war pros- ; neap pect is so uncertain that the United States should have an anchor to windward , that it should not leave itself bound to long-enduring reciprocal trade arrangements when these might prove disastrous to our national economy . They contend that the post-war prospect possibly includes a European trade union , organized - , gainst the United States , and that the Danaher amendment gives to the country a club in the closet . " Escape " Clause This would be persuasive in a hard-boiled way  --  despite its f oune-tion on distrust of allies  --  if the trade agreements already entered into did rilt have a. number of " escape " clauses and if all new pacts would not contain the same . These clauses are designed to meet any such conditions or emergencies as are envisioned in the post-war world . Congress put limits to the executive power when it delegated the " authority to make the agreements and requi-ed the very safeguards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a constantly suspended threat is to leave the - impression that the threat is a fixed promise . After the war the products of American farms and factories will be seeking foreign markets and production will be turned from the items of war to those of peace if the system of free enterprise continues . Instead of opening more doors abroad to these products the Danaher amendment is a warning to tha nations to close their doors before the United States can close its own . If the Hawley-Smoot law and the economic policy for which it was spokesman are sound and what the nation wants to restore , then t1-.2 Danaher amendment lays down a broac ' road on which to return to them . But if that law and policy are unsound and no longer wanted there is no good foundation for the amendment . House Committee View In its report on renewing the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act the Ways and Means Committee majority wrote : The testimony * * * from all sources is overwhelming on the side of viewing these very postwar uncertainties as one of the reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clean-cut continuance . * * Our interest is in doing all that we can do to make sure that postwar conditions are not permitted to lapse into chaos . Of course , there e uncertainties about many things in the post-war period . But the important point is that unless we and other likeminded nations ? take a position now on certain agreed policies , and establish procedures for making these policies effective , ur-ertainties which we fear will become certainties of past sad experience . The House cut down the extension of the act from three years to two . That would seem to have been sufficient provision against unpredictable economic consequences of the war .                     