@@780550

The Republican State Convention met here to-day , and was called to order by W. A. Pledger , Chairra:In of the Central Committee , who stated thztt the convention had been called to consider the condition of State politics , and to determine tho advisability of nominating a ticket . The Rev. Mr. White , of Augusta , was chosen permanent President . Eighty-one delegates  --  nine from each Congressional district  --  were present . A long debate was had as to the duty of Republicans , considering the split in the Georgia Democracy . As the State Constitution declares that only a majority can elect , some speakers thought it would be folly to nominate a straight Republican ticket . On the question whether the convention should indorse Colquitt or Norwood for Governor , there were some sharp speeches . Jonathan Norcross offered a resolution that the Republicans should support Norwood rather than Colquitt . Ho said he had been advised by Marshall Jewell that such was the best policy . The resolution called forth storms of hisses from the floor and galleries , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidently the favorite of the convention , and an allusion to him as a Democrat who had been friendly to the colored race was applauded . Resolutions were finally passed deelaring it to be in-expedient to nominate a State ticket and leaving Republicans to vote as they please . This will insure the support of at least three-fourths of them to Colquitt , and , his election by a large majority . Nor-wood 's civil rights speech in the Senate and subsequent sneering remarks about the colored race , are used with fearful effect by colored politicians and will reduce his support to the disaffected Democrats . It is amusing to see both wings of the Democracy coquetting with the colored vote and holding out fair promises . Tills bitter canvass and the equal division of the white vote is an omen of better times in Georgia , and a guarantee of fairer elections than have ever been known here . The negro has become of great importance , and each faction will vie with the other in making concessions to him . The Republicans are thoroughly organized for Garfield , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim the First Congressional District , and in the Fifth have put up James C. Freeman , who beat one of the strongest of Democrats for Congress in 1872 . Intelligent colored men are taking the lead in the party , and are determined to put forth every effort and to see that a fair count i3 had .                     