@@719950

President Eisenhower will report to the . tomorrow night on the " situation in the Taiwan Strait . " James C. Hagerty , White House press secretary , said today the President would return to Washington " to report to the American people and , for that matter , to the people of the world . " The Presidential decision was reached this morning after a review of the latest intelligence brought here- .. by Gordon Gray , director of the National Security Council , and Brig . Gen. Andrew T. Goodpaster , White House staff secretary . The nature of this intelligence from the Far East was not disclosed by Mr. Hagerty . There Is no special emergency that prompted the President 's decision to address the nation on the military and political picture growing out of the United States ' announced determination to repel any at- , tempted invasion of Quemoy and Matsu from the China mainland , Mr. Hagerty said . " It was the feeling , " he told reporters at the regular morning news conference , " that such a report would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what the situation was in that area . " Mr. Hagerty said the President would confer at 4 P. M. with Secretary of State Dulles in Washington after his arrival aboard his special plane , Columbine HI . The press secretary was asked whether President Eisenhorkei ! s reply to the latest note Iihm Premier Niklta S. Khrushchev - of the Soviet Union was being delayed until after his report ' to the nation by radio and ; television . His reply was that " I have nothing to tell you on the ' reply to Mr. Khrushchev . " Yesterday Mr. Hagerty said it would be at least two weeks before the President would ' study the letter . In the letter , Mr. Khrushchev said that any attack on Communist China would be considered by the Soviet Government as an attack on the , - Soviet Union . He accused the TJaited States of " intimidationi and blackmail " by disposing its sea and land forces close to the Chinese mainland . A In the absence of a rePlrto Mr. Khrushchev , Mr. ? Dulles hinted yesterday that - there might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary said there might well be further : Consequences if the Communists renounced the use of face in the Taiwan Strait . Mr. Dulles declined to discuss What ' the consequences might be on the ground that the " rights and interests of an ally " were involved . Mr. Hagerty said the Presi-1 dent would make his report to the nation from 10 to 10:30 P. M. from the White House . The President plans to return to Newport Friday morning . Hagerty Is Questioned The press secretary was questioned closely about any diplomatic implications in what the President plans to say . " Is this in effect his reply to Khrushchev 's letter ? " Mr. Hagerty was asked . " No , I would n't say that , " he replied . " I think this is a report by the President to the American people on the situation as it exists and as it has developed and as it exists as of tomorrow or today or tomorrow in that area . " " Any specific happening in the last day or so to make this ? any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question . " No , it was a feeling that a special report would serve to better inform our people , and those of the world , on just exactly what the American position is in that area , and a review or a report of that situation , " Mr. Hagerty said . To allay further any reports that the military situation in the Taiwan Strait was more serious that pictured in press reports , the preys secretary said the idea of a Presidential report to the nation was first discussed yesterday between the President and Mr. Dulles . The President decided this morning , after a discussion with Mr. Gray and General Goodpastor , to go ahead with the report , Mr. Hagerty said . The press secretary then was asked , " Did I understand you to say that this is not an emergency ? " " I did n't say that , " Mr. Hagerty replied . " I said it was a major talk and a major report . " " So it is not an emergency ? " " I am going to say it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Live on ABC President Eisenhower 's address will be broadcast live on American Broadcasting Company television and over most radio stations at 10 P. M. today . In addition , it will be ' televised in taped recording on Channel 5 at - 11 P. M. and on Channel 2 , 4 and 11 at 11:15 P. M. It will also be seen on Channel 9 at 11 P. M. or at the conclusion of the baseball game scheduled to be shown on that station during the evening .                     