@@744050

The President has seen fit in his annual Message to devote an unusual amount of attention to our relations with foreign countries . So far as the nations of the Eastern Continent are concerned there is little involved in those relations that is of special note . We are happily on the most friendly terms with them all , and almost the only incidents calling for official reference relate to the rights and privileges of our citizens and our merchant vessels within the jurisdiction of Eastern countries , or to the peaceful promotion of common interests by international agreement . There is a certain suggestiveness in a passing reference to the importance of our relations with China and Japan on account of our position as the " chief Pacific power , " but there is no ground for assuming that our concern with the affairs of nations across the Pacific is any different from that which we have with nations across the Atlantic . Our policy is to cultivate a friendly understanding with all , with a view to mutual commercial advantages . With regard to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Message assumes a somewhat different tone . There is , fortunately , no reference made to traditions or doctrines that owe their origin and significance to ancient controversies , but it is quietly assumed that we have a special interest in the peaceful relations of all independent American nations , in the integrity of those whose institutions are republican , and in their freedom from complications with European powers . It is for us to exercise friendly offices for the composition of disputes and the settlement of controversies where any outside interposition seems to be called for . There have been some happy results of this readiness to act as mediator and arbitrator among American States , and it is to be hoped that the muddle which has been produced by the somewhat officious alacrity of at least one of our representatives will be cleared up by a really sensible effort to bring about harmony on an equitable basis . There need be very little difficulty in the part which the United States is called upon to perform , if it is remembered that the South American republics are independent nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character , and that our position is only that of a friendly mediator . In dealing with the questions growing out of the interoceanic canal at Panama , the President found the Government in some sort committed to a certain policy , and he shows a disposition to carry this out . He does not assume that the canal can not be constructed except in a manner and on conditions that we have approved . He says nothing about the necessity of our exercising exclusive control or any control over it . He simply takes up the question of guaranteeing the neutrality of the future waterway from the Atlantic to the Pacific , and maintains that the guarantee which we have already given is sufficient , and that the " interjection " of any other might be regarded " as a superfluous and unfriendly act . " This attitude of the Government was assumed before lie came to his present office , and he merely proposes to sustain it in a practical fashion by a new agreement with the United States of Colombia and the removal of the obstacle presented by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally assumed that this policy of an exclusive guarantee is in accord with certain essential principles and traditions of the Government and is to be insisted upon as involving the integrity of a time-honored American doctrine . There is really nothing very definitely established about it . The very existence of the ClaytonBulwer treaty is proof that it was not regarded as a fixed policy of the country in 1850 . The question presented is simply one to be settled by friendly negotiations in one of two ways . There is no occasion for bluster and no evidence that any European power takes a profound interest in the matter one way or another . Whether a joint European guarantee has ever been proposed is not altogether certain . Mr. BLAINE stated in his letter to our Ministers abroad that it had " fallen under the observation of the President " that the " great powers of Europe may possibly be considering the subject . " President ARTHUR says that the " Government learned that Colombia had proposed to the European powers to join in a guarantee of neutrality . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement , but it is probable that those powers may expect to be consulted . In the treaty with New-Granada this country gave its own guarantee of the neutrality of the isthmus and of the sovereignty of that country over its territory , but nothing contained in the agreement necessarily precludes a reinforcement of that guarantee by other nations . By the Clayton-Bulwer treaty we entered into a joint guarantee with England , and by implication invited other nations to unite in it . If we insist now on an exclusive guarantee , it can hardly be claimed as a matter of right , but must be urged as a matter of interest and policy , and obtained by the consent of Colombia and of the other nations which may assume to have interests at stake . It is not a matter to get into a heat over and can probably be settled by amicable negotiations .                     