@@741350

That a Democrat representing a City district should take the ilmst opportunity to seek the favor of the blatant demagogues who pretend to represent the working men was entirely natural . We are not surprised , therefore , that Mr. COUGHLIN* introduced a resolution in the Legislature , yesterday , " that a committee of five be appointed to draw up a bill for the relief of working men now in distress , owing to the panic . " It is a proof there is good sense in the Assembly that it did not allow this resolution to be passed at once , but , upon the suggestion that it ought to be discussed , laid it upon the table . When it comes up for discussion , as we suppose it must at some time , care should be taken to lay bare the motives in which it originated , and to state the effect which this kind of legislation will have upon society . Democratic sympathy with the sufferings of labor is too recent not to be suspicious . The working men know that Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ncessaries of life . While the Ring robbed and the vulgar knaves who served it became richer every day , the artisans who lived by honest toil became poorer . These robberies increased taxation , which in turn enhanced rents and the cost of all the staples of life . While the Ring rascals were buying new diamonds and festooning the Academy of Music in Midwinter with the rarest flowers in preparation for riotous Americus balls , the artisan was taking refuge in noxious tenements , and subsisting on the scantiest . fare . Tammany made New-York a City where only the rich and the poor could abide . The American mechanics , constituting the great middle class , which is the basis for sound political action , have been unable to find a decent home in New-York . They have been forced into exile or into herding in huge tenements , where they have found it impossible to keep their families in comfort or decency . This is what Democratic policy as enforced by Tammany has done for the working men , and , happily for them , they know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will scout ; any proposal for their relief they know is nothing better than a clumsy net to catch their votes . This is the design of the Coughlin resolution . It is intended to gain the favor of such agitators as the man BANKS , who threatened to throw the Aldermen out of the window . These pestilent disturbers of society have kept up a din so long , and . have so kept themselves in the foreground , that they have convinced a few shallow politicians that they are really leaders of an army of famishing men clamoring for bread . They have convinced COUGHLIN . Ho knows the famished have votes , and he thinks whoever proposes to give them bread will get their votes . Straightway he offers his resolution . It is an invitation to BANKS and his small horde of idle ruffians to forthwith appear at Albany and . threaten to throw Senators and Assemblymen out of the windows . COUGHLIN doubtless reckons on that result as the first of the good . things which are to follow his resolution , which is an excellent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad for honest working men . It encourages the Communism with which a few wretched Socialists are seeking to disgrace the labor of the country . In its motives and its effects the resolution is deserving of reprobation . It is gratifying to know that , in the end , the shallow politicians will be hoisted with their own petard . Nothing is more certain than that the real working men of the country have no sympathy with the Communists who are making demands in their name . They have sense enough to know that by such proceedings as BANKS and his gang are indulging in they are sure to lose public respect , and in the end be brought to ruin . They know , further , that the truth as to the existing distress furnishes no excuse for these proceedings . A statement we published on Dec. 15 , carefully compiled from trustworthy sources , showed that there were then only 4,050 more men out of employment in this City than there were at the same time last year . This fact proves that there is no such universal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no necessity for any resort to extraordinary measures , and nobody knows it better than those who are demanding them . There is no reason why State and City Treasuries should be emptied into the lap of BANKS and his comrades . There is not the slightest chance that they will be gladdened by any such ending of their clamor .                     