@@729050

Not one high school in Cook County has an effective drug education program , Pa trick Healy , executive director of the National District Attorneys Association , charged yesterday . " The Chicago area is behind in drug education , " said Healy , a former federal prosecutor and assistant state 's attorney . " Fears Parents ' Reaction " Now that drug abuse has become a suburban as well as a ghetto problem , Healy said , many suburban school officials " have buried their heads in the sand " and are afraid to instigate drug education programs . " Drug education , like sex , is Patrick Healy controversial , " Healy said . " In the southern part of the county a school superintendent has refused to begin a drug education program because he fears parents ' reaction . " Many officials say they meet the problem when it comes ? on an individual basis , " Healy said . " But at that point , the kids are already on drugs . " " I am not interested in what people say on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The programs are not effective . " Aids School Officials . The association , located at 211 E. Chicago Av. , has been involved in the growing drug problem since 1967 . It has conducted surveys thruout the country and sponsored various seminars to help law enforcers and teachers cope with the problem . Too often , Healy said , the schools place the burden of drug education on a person who knows very little about it . " You have to present an intelligent program , " Healy said . " If you try to con or scare kids , they 'll boot you right out . Drug education must be turned over to someone who knows what they are talking about . ? Need to Be Told " Kids should be told the truth . We do n't know enough about marijuana , for example . But we do know enough to say it is harmful . The truth is bad enough . " Healy said many schools rely an police departments and social agencies to visit the students and speak on the problem . " But one Wednesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he contended . " The program must be on-going to be effective . " Fred Heimann , an assistant superintendent of Cook County schools who has been involved in drug education , rejected Healy 's statement that there is no effective program here . Under state law all schools must have a drug education program , but Heimann said it is not known how many schools do . The majority , he said , either have a program or are working on one . He agreed , however , that drug education should be taught more than a few times a year . Both Chicago and Cook County school officials are , studying their drug education programs in hopes of improving them , he said .                     