@@742850

The returns of Tuesday 's election in'aings County are still defective in some districts , but the general results are not materially different from those announced in our columns yesterday morning . The Democrats concede a decided and unexpected RePutBean victory in the local contest , though they claim , with obvious excess of confidence , a majority of 6,000 on the State ticket . The Republicans have elected their canditates for Sheriff , Controller , and Auditor ; they will have a majority in the Boards of Aldermen and Supervisors ; they will send ? as many members to the Assembly as the regular Democrats , and possibly two more ; they have elected their candidate to Congress in the Third District by an overwhelming majority ; they have contributed to the defeat of the regular Democrat in the Second District also by a strang majority , and they have cut down Bliss ' majority in the Fourth District in a manner which must make that gentleman feel that he had batter stop standing for Congress with this time , since his majority , steadily lessening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a victory with which the Republicans have a right to be gratified , and it is one which the Democrats regard with illconcealed amazement and chagrin . The most striking ' feature connected with it is the promise which it holds . out for the future . If so much has been done this year under the circumstances which existed , it is a reasonable inference that more may be done hereafter . The election of Tuesday showed very conclusively that the local management of the Democratic Party in Kings County is radically weak . It has been so grasnng and domineering , and so insulting to the decent portion of the party , that its hold is permanently weakened ; and this is true not only because the better class of Democrats are disgusted , but because the managers have alienated even some of the elements with which they are most closely in sympathy , and over which they would naturally have the most control . This is particularly evident in the Congressional elections . In the Third District , where Mr. CIIITTENDEN has in round numbers 7,000 majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who estranged precisely the class with whom Mr. CHITTENPEN 'S qualities made him particularly popular . On the other hand , in the Second District , O'REILLY , who did not receive the united support of the Republicans , drew from tho regular candidate a vote which took the clique entirely by surprise . The local Republican ticket was a fair one , but it was not a particularly strong one ? not so strong , certainly , with a few exceptions , as the party might have presented . Yet it was elected because Democratic management has been going from bad to worse in the county , and the people have contracted a deep-seated distrust of anything and everything which bears the Democratic stamp . In this fact lies the opportunity of . the Republicans . We have no hesitation in saying that with an intelligent use of the advantages already gained , Brooklyn can easily be made , not , perhaps , a Republican city , but , what is more important , a city in which the Democratic Ring management can always be defeated . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power , and have learned to a great degree how to ure it . If the Republicans bear this in mind , if they are prepared t3 subordinate partisan and personal interests to the development of a consistent and permanent reform in municipal government , and hold themselves always ready . to ir. - vite and deserve the co-operation of independent citizens , the re-establishment of the odious and costly rule of the , - lin Ring will be an impossibility . This is an opportunity which we trust the best men of the party will not neglect ; for ' there is no city in the Union where radical municipal reform is more needed ; or whore ought to be , under proper management more feasible .                     