@@672250

LET US HAVE PEAVE . " At last there is something worthy of the Paris Revolutionary Centenary Exposition , " says the Saturday Review , and . then it proceeds to utter a column and a half of what appears to be humor , but probably is not , about a Congress of Spooks . We may dismiss the congress without inquiring as to its composition or functions . We have cited the Saturday Review 's article merely to give American publicity to the new title it has discovered for what the Frenchmen had ignorantly supposed was an Exposition Universelle . There is , to be sure , a historical basis for the Saturday Review 's amendment . The events which the exposition commemorates were of a distinctly revolutionary character . Among other things , the French at that time were careless in the use of edged tools . They allowed a competent cleaver to fall upon the neck of a stout gentleman named LouIs XVI . It has been asserted by eminent writers that this incident , though it caused a momentary inconvenience to the gentleman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain to the French people . ' But it was revolutionary ; there is no doubt about that , since , like another incident of a similar character at Whitehall some years earlier , it played the very mischief with the celebrated doctrine of the divine right of Kings . Because of the revolutionary character of the events whose centenary is celebrated by the Paris fair several of the great powers of Europe , including Austria , the Saturday Review , Germany , and Italy , have held aloof from the enterprise . They treat it , in fact , with haughty scorn , not unmixed with apprehension , just as the Evening Post treats the pestilent project of holding a World 's Fair in this city in 1892 to celebrate the socalled discoveries of COLUMBUS . COLUMBUS 'S performances were not revolutionary except in respect to geography and the noble red . man . It has been observed , of course , that the North American Indians are in entire agreement with the Evening Post in regard to the fair of 1892 , though we suspect their motives are different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Post hammers away at the thing day after day with all the frenzy of a muchdisturbed mind . Originally , the Post 's opposition to the fair seemed to be based upon reports that a portion of Central Park might be occupied by its buildings , but since the committee having in charge the selection of a site has decided that it can get along without encroaching upon the Park it is plain that the conduct of the Post can be explained only on the theory of its unflinching and uncompromising opposition to the holding of the fair in New-York three years hence . There is room for the conjecture , and a very plausible one , that the Post is working in the interests a Chicago . Inasmuch as THE TIMES and the Mtn have thus far weakly refrained from denouncing the Site Committee in such severe terms as its abominable conduct no doubt deserves , the Evening Post raises the question whether the news reports of exposition matters which THE TIMES and Sun print from day to day are not merely reading notices paid . for by the astute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ' perfectly fair retort to say that the entire issue , of the Evening Post is a readit g notice paid for by the World 's Fair Committee at Chicago . Strong collateral evidence in support of this hypothesis might be adduced , but really we do not believe it . We do not believe that even if Chicago owned and ' edited the Post , it ' would go quite so far in abuse of prominent and respectable citizens of New-York as the actual conductors of that newspaper ' have gone in what they have had to say . about the fair . With daily reiteration the . Post has declared that Mr. GRACE , . Mr. FLOWER , Mr. HUNT , Mr. BoGART , Mr. TowNE , and other members of the Site Committee of equally irreproachable character are really a gang of real estate speoulators , who have ohosen the . site for the fair mainly with a view to personal . profit through the enhancement in the value of the city lots which they have found a little slow of sale . Yesterday the Post sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have not arisen and slain Mr. FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED for having made the monstrous proposition that the reservoir in Central Park might be floored over and used for exhibition purposes . There are several views concerning the exhibition project which a reasonable man may hold without reproach . One is that there shall be no exposition ; a second that the exposition should occupy no part of Central Park ; a third that it should occupy no part of the , city of New-York , but should be held in Chicago or Washington . But it would seem-that a man entirely rea%enable holding any one of these opinions might express it in temperate language , without daily inciting a breach of the peace by declaring that every man who held any other opinion:was a scoundrel and a villain .                     