@@726050

The growing amiability of high Soviet diplomats toward Americans is noted with considerable interest here . One scholar in Moscow-Washington matters noted Peking 's recent bitter report that Soviet and American ships had exchanged Christmas greetings in the Tonkin Gulf , and said that whether or not it was true ( he felt it was ) it suggested a parallel to what has happened here . Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Vasily V. Kuznetsov is understood to have sent sea-.son 's regards to Americans , including UN Ambassador Arthur J. Goldberg . There have been other recent cordial exchanges between diplomats of the two countries . New tone of frankness Such diplomatic examples follow reports from Americans , private and official , returning from Moscow who report Russians going out of their way to make friendly contact . Mr. Goldberg 's relations with Mr. Kuznetsov last month were unusually cordial . Both men are considered among the highest-ranking " doves " in their countries . Mr. Kuznetsov , like Ambassador Goldberg , has a background in the labor movement . He once worls ; ed in an Atherican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murray , the late head of United Steel- U.S. : Arthur J. Goldberg The ' selective thaw ' .... workers of America and former president of the CIO . Mr. Goldberg , who once aided the ejection of Communists from the American labor movement , is generally regarded as having been both skeptical land fair in his relations with the Soviets since coming to his post at the UN . After some hot-and-cold rounds over Vietnam during the past year , relations began to improve markedly this fall despite lack of progress on Vietnam . Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko is said to have set a new tone of frankness and pragmatism in his talks with Dean Rusk , Mr. Goldberg , and President Johnson in October . What fascinates diplomats looking at the Soviet-American " selective thaw " from the outside is the usefUlness that the cautious new warmth has for both sides . For Washington it provides reassurance that Moscow is not about to plunge suddenly and heavily into the Southeast Asian war . It makes possible the diversion of American interest  --  and military power  --  from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mirror duplication of the same advantages . The thaw helps to keep the Vietnam war limited . It restrains American escalation . It prevents the mining of Haiphong Harbor or firing on Soviet ships . And it permits the diversion of Soviet interest  --  and possibly some military power  --  from Europe to Asia , the Chinese frontier . Risks involved There are contradictions in this strategy for both sides . N it acquiesces too much in the thaw , the Kremlin runs the risk of falling in with American " hawk " arguments that Moscow will never intervene fully in Vietnam , and therefore all-out war on Hanoi and Peking is possible . For this reason Soviet amity is expected to be overcast with bitter criticism and defense expansion as long as the war continues . There can be no doubt that Soviet officials genuinely feel the United States is playing a harsh and repressive role in Vietnam . Given the depth of this feeling , strong forces must be at work to overcome it and bring ' about current moves for personal frankness and friendship . The most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . about China if a relatively pro-Soviet faction does not win out in Peking . 2 . The desire to prevent a nuclear Germany and rid Moscow of its traditional fear of a two-front confrontation in Asia and Europe . 3 . Interest in speeding economic accommodation with the computer-age West in order to speed the Soviet consumer economy . In this context the season 's greetings issued from Moscow to Americans appear to indicate that for the moment these three goads at least slightly outweigh anger over Vietnam . Associated Press U.S.S.R. : Vusily V. Kuznetsov .. . is useful for both sides                     