@@725150

New York , Nov. 19 , ( UP ) - Anaconda company , the nation 's largest copper company , today rolled back the price of domestically-produced copper a day after President Johnson authorized sales from the government 's copper stockpiles . Anaconda said a 2-cent rollback to 36 cents a pound will go into effect Monday . White House Pressure The move , similar to one made by the nation 's leading aluminum producers earlier this month . came in obvious response to White House pressure . The government announced yesterday it was invoking its emergency powers to authorize the release of 200. - 000 tons of the strategically important metal from its stockpiles . In Johnson City . Tex. , President Johnson was reported delighted Asked about the President 's reaction , acting White House Press Secretary Jack J. Valenti said , " The President is always delighted when he sees exhibitions of statesmanship and responsibility on the part of American industry . I think that might NATII describe his feelings at this time . " Presses Ahead In Washington . Secretary of Defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources said the price reduction would have no effect on his four-point program for relieving the copper shortage . The reduction is in current prices . was primarily concerned about copper future prices , which were nearly double the going rate . His program calls for selling 200,000 tons of copper , controling exports , encouraging imports , and seeking additional margin requirements on the commodity exchange to cut down speculative buying . Anaconda 's action caught most industry observers by surprise . It was assumed the copper firms would hold fast to the 38-cent a pound price set recently by three of the nation 's four major producers after Chile ordered the price of . its copper raised to that level . Emphasizing the scarcity of copper supply , Kennecott Copper company-the only major United States producer that did not join in the round of price hikes earlier this month  --  announced late today it will have to reduce the shipments of Chilean copper to European customers because of strikes which began Oct. 23 at its Braden mine property in Chile . Another major producer , Phelps Dodge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welcomed the administration 's decision to unload copper from the government stockpile on the ground that it was needed by industry . AMminum Forced Down The decision to release the government supply of copper drew from Sen. Dirksen Senate minority leader , the charge that the administration move was " federal price control without the pre-requisite legislation on the books to authorize it . " A little over a week ago . major United States aluminum companies withdrew scheduled price hikes of a half-cent a pound on primary aluminum after reproving words from the White House concerning possible inflationary effects on the booming economy and a White House announcement that aluminum stock piles would be released .                     