@@773750

80 The Slippery Art of Space these were seen to be fundamentally different from the materiality and spatiality of buildings . Such a conservation of the tradition has been sustained by over twenty-five years of conferences in which the readers of Derrida 's work have employed an architectural rhetoric to enthusiastically embrace the loss of foundations , the subversion of structure , and so on , while actively resisting the possibility that such arguments could be deployed to analyze the architecture of the very rooms within which these claims were being made ( unlike Heidegger , who repeatedly elaborated his arguments by analyzing the room in which he was lecturing60 ) . It is not that the extensive use of this rhetoric requires that it be employed in the architectural domain from which it appears to have been appropriated . Indeed , one of the consequences of paying attention to the specificity of that domain may be , ironically , to conclude that an entirely different rhetoric would be involved in the deconstruction of architecture . Rather , the issue is simply ( although its consequences are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , furthermore , a tacit prohibition against it . Many different kinds of gestures made within the evolving discourse around deconstruction can be understood as forms of resistance to such an interrogation of architecture , a resistance that faithfully maintains the very logic ostensibly being threatened and renders much of that threat illusory . Consequently , it is necessary to carefully study each of Derrida 's gestures to see if it disturbs or reproduces the traditional economy within which architecture has a unique role , only to be subordinated to some conceptual order . If Heidegger explicitly addresses architecture only to detach his thinking from it in a way that reproduces metaphysics , Derrida 's work is of interest to architectural discourse only inasmuch as it rethinks space in a way that radically transforms architectural thinking and can not be detached from architecture , even if architecture is never discussed as such . Rather than applying Derrida 's discussion of space to architecture , its architectural condition needs to he more precisely identified . Instead of thinking of architecture as a kind of writing ( as so many readings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have attempted to do ) , it is at the very least a matter of thinking of writing as a kind of architecture and tracing the architecture already embedded within Derrida 's discourse . In these terms , the question here becomes whether or not Derrida distances himself from Heidegger in a way that rethinks the subordination of space in general and architecture in particular . And , given that the traditional scene of architecture in philosophical discourse is one of identification sustained by repression , this raises the additional question of whether there is a relationship between the way Derrida draws so extensively on Heidegger 's work , only to detach himself from it , and the way Heidegger draws so extensively on architecture , only to detach himself from it . Does Derrida detach himself from Heidegger at precisely the point at which Heidegger detaches himself from architecture ? Could Derrida 's work be understood as continuing the rethinking of architecture that Heidegger prematurely abandoned ? To approach these questions , which can so easily , and neces- sarily , be multiplied here , involves carefully tracing the role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinking about space . It is a matter of identifying the relationship between spacing and the traditional architectural figure , which is to say , between spacing and the space of the edifice . This must be a uniquely complicated relationship inasmuch as the figure of the edifice is already that of the ongoing control of writing by speech . Architecture already appears to stand for the repression of spacing . Indeed , it seems to appear only inasmuch as it represses . It is , as it were , the very appearance of repression . The figure of the grounded structure designates the fundamental project of metaphysics , the identification of a universal language that controls representation in the name of presence : the logos . As we have seen , Derrida traces the way in which the tradition of metaphysics maintains this logocentric protocol , which privileges presence over representation , with an account of language that privileges speech over writing . While speech is promoted as presentation of pure thought , writing is subordi-82 The Slippery Art of Space nated as the representation of speech . The role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heidegger 's identification of the original sense of the word logos as a " gathering " in a way that lets things " stand , " the standing of " construction . " A link between structure and presence organizes traditional accounts of language . The means by which language is grounded is identified with structure . Speech is identified with the way the structure of a building makes visible the condition of the ground it is bonded to . Phonetic writing , as the representation of speech , is identified with the ornamentation of a building that represents the structure to which it is added . And writing that ceases to be phonetic , losing its bond to speech , representation detached from presence , is seen as ornamentation that refers away from the structure to which it is attached , dissimulating the building . The hierarchical protocol of metaphysics ( **35;948;TOOLONG ) is sustained by the architectural figure ( **25;985;TOOLONG ) . In these terms , the figure of the edifice is employed to subordinate spacing , where spacing is understood as the detachment of writing . The structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attempt to control spacing , an attempt that turns on the division of ornament . The line between space and spacing cuts through ornament . But the architectural figure is not just the figure of the control of spacing , a metaphor for the ongoing work of the tradition , it is the figure itself that controls , the metaphor itself that does the work . Architecture , the " art " of space , is called in to subordinate spacing , and , in the end , to subordinate space . If space is configured as the control of spacing , it is then itself subordinated . Architecture ends up subordinating itself . And this complication is , as it were , structural . To trace the role of space and spacing in Derrida 's work , it is therefore necessary to follow the role in it of the architectural figure that is traditionally employed to subordinate them , a figure whose widespread strategic operations can never be pinned down and that remains elusive even in those moments in which it seems to be clearly articulated , an enigmatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ double . 83 The Structure of Ornament The Structure of Ornament It is significant that Derrida 's reading of Kant 's philosophy of art distances itself from Heidegger 's by focusing on the question of ornament . He argues that Kant 's text turns on the possibility of making a clear distinction between the inside and the outside of the artwork , between its internal meaning and its external circumstances . All philosophical discourse on art from Plato on ( including Heidegger ) is seen to attempt to draw this line , but it is always disturbed by ornamentation ( Parergon ) , which is neither simply inside nor simply outside the work ( Ergon ) . For Kant , ornament is " only an adjunct , and not an intrinsic constituent . " 61 It is supposedly that which can be detached from the work , that which has been added to it , an external addition , a supplement subservient to the work , in the service of the work . The Critique of Judgement handles the question of ornament by splitting it in two . The work of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate good ornament from bad . The Critique explicitly authorizes ornament to enter the work it is attached to inasmuch as it is " form " or " design , " but inasmuch as the ornament is material , bodily , sensual , it is excluded from the interior as seductive , a dangerous object of desire , dangerous because desirable . In the fine arts " the design is what is essential . Here it is not what gratifies in sensation but merely what pleases by its form , that is the fundamental prerequisite for taste . " fie In this way , the critique employs the distinction between form and matter with which the tradition of metaphysics has always organized itself . Aesthetics is subservient to metaphysics . It is the application of metaphysics to art ? or so it would seem . This attempt to control ornament does not only come up when philosophy comes across art . It is written into every operation of metaphysics . Metaphysics is a certain thinking of ornament that only manifests itself within aesthetics where the philosophical tradition is bound to address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the tradition , actually constituting it as such . 84 The Slippery Art of Space Derrida disturbs this tradition by questioning its ability to control ornament . He notes that what Kant 's three examples of ornament ( the frame on a painting , drapery on a statue , and the colonnade on a palace ) share is that they can not be detached without destroying the work . There is a gap , a lack , a crack in the structure of the work that must be filled by the ornament . The work not only admits the external ornament , in all its sensuality , into its interior but is constituted by that entry , made possible by that which appears to be excluded from it , that which serves it , that which it supposedly masters . The ornament is an outsider that always already inhabits the inside , an intrinsic constituent of the interior from which it is meant to be banished . There could be no work without the play of that which appears to be merely its supplement . This argument might not seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examples , but in each case the rhetoric employed is architectural . The issue is invariably that of structure . In each ornament , Derrida identifies the " internal structural link which rivets them to the lack in the interior of the ergon. " 63 And this argument , in turn , is not limited to the question of art . On the contrary , it is raised throughout Derrida 's writing , which is always concerned with the status of such supplements , that which appears to be added , whether it be the title , preface , metaphor , signature , and so on . And in each case , it is a question of its " structural " role . Indeed , at one point , Of Grammatology identifies its concern with what it elsewhere calls the " structure of supplementarity " G4 as a concern with " supplementary as structure . " 65 Ornament is therefore not just an example of the operations of the supplement , one of a long chain of equivalent terms in Derrida 's writing . Each of these terms is understood as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " structural link " that binds it to what it appears to be detached from . Most of Derrida 's work is work on ornament . Inasmuch as it always involves identifying the structural role of a supplement , ornament is not just an example of the work of deconstructive discourse but its ongoing theme . And this thematic question of ornament , which is not simply , if ever , a question of or for art , is 85 The Structure of Ornament always architectural.66 It involves a thinking about space that can not be as easily separated from the question of a building as might at first appear . What is at stake in ornament is the distinction between inside and outside . It is ornament that defines space . There may be no space without ornament , and no thought about ornament that is not a thought about space . Derrida 's thinking of ornament has many implications for architecture , not because it can be simply applied to architecture , but because it is from the beginning a rethinking , a repositioning , of architecture . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end , be very different from certain subtexts of traditional theories of ornament in architectural discourse . Much of what Derrida argues is already explicitly written into canonic architectural theory . It is relatively easy to point to similar theories of the enigmatic centrality and structural role of ornament , like Gottfried Semper 's in the nineteenth century , for example , whose traces are everywhere manifest in the very canonic tradition of architectural discourse that suppresses it.67 At the very least , deconstructive discourse redirects attention to the traditional resources of architectural discourse . It may be that deconstruction is not so much a transformation of architectural discourse as an appropriation of certain architectural enigmas already built into that discourse . Derrida 's work may appropriate more from architecture than it offers in return . Indeed , that appropriation of certain architectural qualities may , ironically , be precisely what it offers inasmuch as it initiates a sustained selfreflection in architectural discourse . What is at issue then in reading Derrida 's work in architectural discourse is not a new architecture , or even a new theory of architecture , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ architecture rather than a different architectural space . Clearly , Derrida is not writing " about " architecture as such . Indeed , on those few occasions when his earlier work addresses architecture as an art , he seems to rehearse some of the most routine assumptions about architecture and resist their complication , accepting and reinforcing the familiar image even in the middle of pointing to the ways in which that image could be 86 The Slippery Art of Space opened up but symptomatically not doing so in the end . This ambivalence about architecture is not so much an isolated event in Derrida 's discourse , but a structural condition that pervades the discourse and surfaces most clearly in those isolated moments when architecture is addressed . This structural ambivalence can be seen in the two moments of his essay on Kant 's The Critique of Judgement that explicitly address architecture as such by discussing the properties of buildings . The first elaborates the architectural " analogy " in Kant 's text by distinguishing between the material structure of a building and the view at it : A spatial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an order of reading . I can move around in front of it , start from the top or the bottom , sometimes walk round it . No doubt this possibility has an ideal limit . . . . In terms of the analogy ( but how to measure its terms ) one ought to be able to begin anywhere and follow any order , although the quantity and the quality , the force of the reading may depend , as with a piece of architecture , on the point of view and on a certain relation to the ideal limit ? which acts as a frame . There are only ever points of view : but the solidity , the existence , the structure of the edifice do not depend on them . Can one say the same , by analogy , of a book . One does not necessarily gain access to a piece of architecture by following the order of its production , starting at the foundations and arriving at the roof-ridge . And we must distinguish here between perception , analysis , penetration , utilization , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy if one does not begin with the foundations and follow the juridical order of its writing . What then is it to read philosophy and must one only read it.68 While Derrida appeals to the ability to engage with architecture relatively independently of the **35;1012;TOOLONG logic that it represents to reconfigure the reading of philosophy that preserves the same logic , the passage preserves a clear separation between the angle of view and the material building it is directed at ? a separation , that is , between subject and object . This is significant inasmuch as it can be argued that architecture is not merely an example of this split but is its very possibility , as can be seen in the way Heidegger explicitly understands his attempt to identify the building as the construction of a view , rather than something that is viewed , as the disruption of 87 The Structure of Ornament that split . When speaking of architecture , Derrida hesitates to track the complications he everywhere else relentlessly pursues . Likewise , in the second moment in which Derrida addresses the material building , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ornament ( the colonnade on a building ) but , in so doing , echoes the claim that a building " does not represent anything " that Heidegger 's essay originally asserted precisely in order to be progressively displaced : Why would the column be external to the building ? Where does the criterion , the critical organ , the organum of discernment come from here ? . . . the parergon is added this time to a work which does not represent anything and which is itself already added to nature . We think we know what properly belongs or does not belong to the human body , what is detached or not detached from it even though the parergon is precisely an ill-detachable detachment . But in a work of architecture , the Vorstellung , the representation is not structurally representational or else is so only through detours complicated enough , no doubt , to disconcert anyone who tried to discern , in a critical manner , the inside from the outside , the integral part and the detachable part . So as not to add to these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the case of columns in the form of the building , those that support or represent the support of a window ( and does a window form part of the inside of a building or not ? And what about the window of a building in a painting ? ) , and which can be naked or clothed , ... fig Again , the complications of architecture are successively invoked rather than pursued , left " to one side . " Furthermore , it can be argued that just as their invocation has a decisive affect on the course of the argument , which then appears to proceed without them ( enabling Derrida to immediately identify " the internal structural link " that binds the ornament to a gap in the structure ) , so too does the reluctance to follow them further . Again , this is significant because architecture is not simply an example of the relationship being explored . It is precisely the relationship between structure and representation that is always at stake in the architectural figure and , indeed , that relationship can only be thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invoked by the tradition for its capacity to articulate the distinction between presentation and representation . By invoking but ultimtely bracketing out the complication of this distinction in 88 The Slippery Art of Space architecture itself , Derrida short-circuits the question even while elaborating an argument that necessarily bears on the figure of architecture and would transform it precisely through those very " detours " that confuse inside and outside . In the end , Derrida does n't hesitate and follow this interruption of the trajectory of his argument as it passes through architecture , which raises the possibility that his thinking might already be coming to a stop with architecture in a way that calls into question its ostensible force everywhere else , that architecture ? which is to say , a certain image of architecture ? is itself acting as some kind of stable ground on which the rest of his work plays , without putting it into question . We must remain constantly alert to this possibility here . But it is equally possible that the force of Derrida 's work derives from a particular rethinking of architecture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be identified inasmuch as it is a rethinking of that which is supposedly the focus of the discipline of architecture but actually constitutes its central blind spot , that which might not be recognized as architecture precisely because it is so central , that which is hidden in and by the center of the discourse , making the very institutional mechanisms that veil it possible . Again , it has to be said that this is not a question of what Derrida says about architecture , but of the role a certain image of architecture plays in his thinking . It does not involve reading his texts from some external position ? that of the institution of architectural discourse ? and adjudicating their thinking of architecture to be sophisticated or naive , radical or reactionary , and so on . The very idea that architecture is " external " to philosophical discourse and the role of that idea in the organization of both institutions is precisely what is at stake here . Rather , it is a matter of following the texts , tracing their contours in detail to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow other texts . Such a parasitic reading , endlessly indebted to its host texts , is not so much concerned with locating the architecture hidden in , if not by , Derrida 's work , but of seeing what it might say about such a hiding , seeing what it reveals about concealment , what it opens about closure , and so on . In the end , these are the architectural questions . 89 The Threat of Architecture The Threat of Architecture It is in these terms that it is necessary to return to Derrida 's reading of Kant 's aesthetics and look at the other level at which architecture comes up in the essay . Its rethinking of ornament has been set up by a certain thinking about architecture , or , rather , a thinking about Kant 's thinking of architecture . If Heidegger identifies and undermines the way in which aesthetics defines art as a superstructural addition to an object , Derrida identifies and undermines the way that aesthetics is itself treated as a superstructure added to the substructure of philosophy . Philosophy understands itself as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art . It subordinates the arts , including architecture , by employing the vertical hierarchy dependent on a certain understanding of the art of architecture . Art is subordinated by being located furthest from the ground . The subordination is made possible by the traditional image of architecture , the image that will itself be subordinated within the arts and detached from philosophy as merely a contingent metaphor superfluous to the fixed structure of philosophy . Everywhere , architecture is involved in its own subordination . Derrida 's essay points to this strange economy by paying attention to the way The Critique of Judgement introduces itself in terms of the design project for an edifice sketched out in the Critique of Pure Reason : For if such a system is some day worked out under the general name of Metaphysic . . . the critical examination of the ground for this edifice must have been previously carried down to the very depths of the foundations of the faculty of principles independent of experience , lest in some quarter it might give way , and , sinking , inevitably bring with it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unlike metaphysics , it can not give them . It is only the presumed universality of the immaterial voice listened to when faced with the material art object that establishes the rationality of aesthetic judgments ? a presumption that can not be confirmed without contaminating taste with reason . Aesthetic judgment is recognized " a priori as a law for everyone without being able to ground it upon proofs , , , 90 The Slippery Art of Space without , that is , being able to identify its " determining ground . " 71 Consequently , aesthetics can not be constructed on the ground like metaphysics . The Critique of Judgement constructs itself as a " bridge " over the " abyss " between Kant 's first two critiques and their respective theoretical and practical realms . From this bridge , the ground at the very bottom of the abyss , on which the projected metaphysics will eventually stand , can be surveyed . The Critique of Judgement is constructed to produce a groundplan , a plan for the foundations of metaphysics . It is only a temporary structure which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ornament to it which must be detached . But the convoluted logic of ornament ensures a certain difficulty in detaching art from the interior of philosophy , a difficulty that binds architectural discourse to philosophy . In describing metaphysics as an edifice , Kant organizes philosophy in terms of a certain account of the art of architecture before the architectural object , or any of the other arts , has been examined in aesthetics . As Derrida puts it : Kant proposes another metaphor . He borrows it , already , from art , which has not yet been discussed , from the technique of architecture , architectonics : the pure philosopher , the metaphysician , will have to operate like a good architect , like a good technites of edification . He will be a sort of artist . Now what does a good architect do , according to Kant ? He must first of all secure the ground , the foundation , the fundament . . . the architect of reason excavates , sounds , prepares the terrain , in search of a solid foundation , the ultimate Grund @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Here philosophy , which in this book The Critique of Judgement has to think art through ? art in general and fine art ? as a part of its field or of its edifice , is here representing itself as part of its part , philosophy as an art of architecture . It represents itself , it detaches itself , dispatches from itself a proxy , a part of itself outside itself to bind the whole , to fill up or heal over the whole that suffers from detachment . The philosophy of art presupposes an art of philosophizing , a major art , but also a miner 's art in its critical preliminaries , an architect 's art in its edifying erection . . . . if this pure philosophy or fundamental metaphysics here proposes to account for , among other things , desire , pleasure and unpleasure , it exposes itself and represents itself first of all in its own desire . The desire of reason would be a fundamental desire , a desire for the fundamental . . . a metaphor of reason to account for all other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the desire of/for reason as desire for a 91 The Threat of Architecture grounded structure . Edifying desire would be produced as an art of philosophizing , commanding all the others and accounting for rendant raison de all rhetoric.72 By representing itself as a work of art , metaphysics is subject to its own analysis of art . Just as it admits ornament into the artwork only inasmuch as it is " design , " it admits its own ornament ? aesthetics ? into its own interior only inasmuch as it is architecture . Architecture must be admitted to cover some kind of gap within metaphysics . Derrida 's argument can be developed further by suggesting that architecture enters by virtue of its claim on " design . " The " trace " that is the signature of the divine artist is design and , for Kant , fine art is only able to give life to the dead body of an object because it is authorized by that signature : " no one would ascribe design , in the proper sense of the term , to a lifeless material . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divine artist , the capacity to produce originals , to be original , by presenting design rather than imitating his products by representing specific designs . It must have the appearance of design and yet " must have the appearance of being undesigned and a spontaneous occurrence . " 74 In this way , the Critique produces its famous formulation of the beautiful as the presentation of purposiveness without the representation of a specific purpose , like " nature which in her beautiful products displays herself as art , not merely by chance , but , as it were , designedly , in accordance with a regular agreement as purposiveness without purpose . " 75 The Critique depends on the traditional argument that the appearance of design in the world presupposes the presence of a designer , an architect , a " supreme Architect . " 76 It is only by employing such an argument from design that the philosophical tradition can describe itself as architecture and the philosopher as an architect . Architecture , then , plays a curious strategic role . It is able to pass between philosophy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a kind of translation . The metaphor circulates between and within the two systems , complicating them as it folds back on itself . A convoluted economy is sustained by the description of architecture as ornamented structure that enables art to be sub-92 The Slippery Art of Space ordinated to philosophy even while philosophy describes itself as architecture . Philosophy describes itself in terms of the very thing it subordinates . In organizing itself around an account of objects as grounded structures , philosophy projects an account of architecture outside itself , which it then appeals to as an outside authority . In so doing , it literally produces that architecture . The divisions between inside and outside , structure and ornament , philosophy and architecture , and so on , do not precede the exclusion of architecture ? they are produced by it . The production of architecture is at the same time the production of the space of philosophy . Architecture , which appears to be the good tame ornament of philosophy , is actually the possibility of philosophy . But it is so only inasmuch as it secretly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let alone define and thereby position it , which is to say that architecture is the possibility of philosophy only inasmuch as it is not strictly architectural . Architecture can only be subordinated as such inasmuch as it can be rendered metaphoric , that is , only inasmuch as a clear distinction can be maintained between material space and immaterial space . The maintenance of this line takes the form of a denial , a fetishistic disavowal that becomes the very basis of both philosophy as a cultural institution and each the arguments it sanctions . If , as Derrida suggests , philosophy , in appealing to architecture , " represents itself , it detaches itself detaches from itself a proxy , a part of itself outside itself to bind the whole , to fill up or heal over the whole that suffers from detachment , " 77 it does so to cover some kind of gap , some internal fracture of its structure . Metaphysics produces the architectural object as the paradigm of ground as support in order to veil its own lack of support , its ungrounded condition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ architecture , producing itself in this translation . The limits of philosophy are established by the metaphorical status of architecture . Derrida closely follows the part of Heidegger 's work that interferes with that status before his texts restore it and return architecture to its " proper place . " One implication of 1 ) crrida 's reading of ornament is that it is the way in which the thought of 93 The Threat of Architecture architecture as a simple addition to building covers the structural role of architecture that actually makes possible the thought of the naked ground as support . This possibility could be developed by looking again at Heidegger 's later essays , which explicitly address architecture and seem to undermine the division between building and architecture in order to displace the traditional sense of the ground . For example , " Building , Dwelling , Thinking " asserts : " But the nature of the erecting of buildings can not be understood adequately in terms either of architecture or of engineering construction , nor in terms of a mere combination of the two . " 78 This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a figure for philosophy , as , for example , when his Schelling 's Treatise on the Essence of Human Freedom locates philosophy in the " uneasy " place " between " structure and ornament , between the closure of a foundation and the openness of that which needs no ground.79 In these terms , the thought of that which is neither building nor architecture that is elided by traditional discourse is the thought of the original ground that precedes the ground-as-support ? the sense of support being no more than an effect of that elision . The linear logic of addition that architecture is invariably called in to reinforce is confused . The building is not simply added to the ground , the ornament is not simply added to the structure , art is not simply added to philosophy . The vertical hierarchy of **25;1049;TOOLONG put in place by the architectural figure is radically convoluted . The architectural figure undermines itself and , ironically , in so doing , it undermines its own subordination . Inasmuch as the figure subverts what it supposedly stands for , it can no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrary , it derives its force precisely from its ornamental role . But while certain Heideggerian moves subvert the logic of addition by displacing the traditional account of architecture , Heidegger ultimately contradicts that possibility , confirming the traditional logic by looking for a stable structure while bracketing off architecture , or , more precisely , he establishes a stable structure by bracketing architecture . In his reading of " The Origin of the Work of Art , " Derrida argues that Heidegger is in the end 94 The Slippery Art of Space 95 The Threat of Architecture unable to abandon the tradition of ground as support , ground as that which is " underneath , " even while " discovering a few cave-ins of the terrain , some abysses too in the field where we advance so tranquilly. " 80 Indeed , Heidegger retains it in the very account of translation he uses to identify the way its emergence conceals the abyss : At the very moment when Heidegger is denouncing translation into Latin Words , at the moment when , at any rate , he declares Greek speech to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metaphor . " Of at least one metaphor , that of the foundation and the ground . The ground of the Greek experience is , he says , lacking in this " translation . " 81 The thought of ground as support is not just produced by a mistranslation . It is itself no more than a certain account of translation . Translation is traditionally understood as presentation of the ground , and mistranslation is understood as detachment from ground , loss of support . It must be recalled that it is the collapse of the Tower of Babel that establishes the necessity of translation as one of reconstruction , edification.82 Heidegger 's account of translation undermines itself when dealing with the translation of the original ground into the idea of the edifice with which philosophy organizes itself . He appears to employ an account of translation similar to Derrida 's inasmuch as he argues that the violation of the original ground is already there in the Greek original . But then he attempts to go " underneath " this sense to erase the violation , and , in so doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very edifice he appears to have undermined , putting the subversive qualities he drew from architecture into play but only after he detaches them from buildings , rendering architecture metaphoric , putting architecture back in its place and , in so doing , putting philosophy back in its place . Derrida 's work disturbs this metaphoric status . Having pointed to the figure in Heidegger 's account of translation , he immediately calls it into question : " What I have just too hastily called metaphor ' concentrates all the difficulties to come : does one speak metaphorically ' of the ground for just anything ? " 8 ' The relevance of Derrida 's work for architecture and vice versa hangs on this question . His work attains its greatest force when it interferes with the traditional categorization of architecture as either a literal , irreducible , and inescapable material reality ? the almost hyperreal status credited to buildings in our culture ? or a contingent and immaterial metaphor . The two categories are actually interdependent . The more fundamental buildings are seen to be , the more metaphoric their role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clarifies the opposition between material object and immaterial discourse , acting as philosophy 's paradigm . Derrida can only disrupt this opposition by disrupting the image of architecture that constitutes it , rather than being its product . If Heidegger ends up reconstituting the tradition of metaphysics sustained by subordinating architecture and prohibiting other accounts of it , this prohibition marks a repression . Something about architecture can not be said without calling into question the whole system . Deconstructive discourse is of interest to architectural discourse inasmuch as it can be used to identify the threat that architecture poses to the tradition of metaphysics to which it is contracted , the threat that causes that tradition to subordinate architecture . Such an appropriation of deconstructive discourse makes available accounts of architecture prohibited by the terms of the ancient contract that binds architecture into discourse , and continues to orchestrate " theoretical " discourse , including those discourses that identify themselves , however cautiously , as " deconstructive. " 4 The Domestication of the House Heidegger 's " late " work develops his early motif of the edifice ? the grounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writing becomes increasingly committed to the question of language , the traditional architectonic structure of language discussed in the early work becomes a " house . " Language as grounding becomes language as " dwelling " Wohnen . The figure of " standing " becomes that of " enclosing . " The structural system binding signifiers to the ground becomes an enclosure . In the famous formulation of the 1947 " Letter on Humanism " : " Language is the house of Being . In its home man dwells . " ' This focus on the house is often identified with Heidegger 's so-called turn . In turning , he turns to the house . This is not so much a turn from the edifice of the early work toward the house . Rather , the edifice is turned into a house , building is now understood as housing . In this way , Heidegger develops a whole architectural rhetoric out of the traditional architectural metaphor with which philosophy institutes itself . Philosophy becomes no more than thinking about housing or , more precisely , the institutions of philosophy are to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is first and foremost a rejection of philosophy 's construction of space . Beginning with the central argument of Being and Time , Heidegger 's texts present an extended critique of the conception of space that has been progressively institutionalized since ancient Greece , a conception that is , for him , the institution of space itself . The moment that philosophy 's central architectural 98 The Domestication of the House metaphor becomes explicit as such ? with Descartes ? is also the moment its ancient basis in a certain account of space becomes explicit . To deconstruct this tradition , Heidegger employs a spatial rhetoric ? " house , " " enclosure , " " shelter , " " abode , " " lodging , " " inner , " " proximity , " " neighborhood " ? but asks us not to hear it spatially . The familiar sense of architecture as the definition of space is invoked and then displaced , highlighted then withdrawn . What we unproblematically take to be the space of the house ( as the paradigm of space itself ) is seen to both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from which we have become alienated . But what distinguishes Heidegger 's arguments from so many other similar-sounding critiques of modern life is that the process of alienation is understood to be an ancient one that is only becoming manifest with modernity and , furthermore , that the basic condition it alienates us from is itself one of profound alienation . The alienating space of the home veils a more fundamental and primordial homelessness . To be at home in such a space is precisely to be homeless . To dismantle the tradition of metaphysics , Heidegger has to dismantle our most familiar experiences of architecture , which are but the product of the tradition of metaphysics and are therefore complicitous with the necessarily violent regime of technology that is its contemporary manifestation . He employs an architectural rhetoric in a way that dispels , among other things , the apparent innocence of architectural space . But this gesture , which has so much to say about architecture ? and a certain dimension of it has been influential in architectural discourse ? is susceptible to its own criticism in a way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is precisely the dimension that has already been so eagerly appropriated by the discourse that is the focus of this criticism . In the end , Heidegger 's architectural rhetoric sustains the very tradition it is deployed to displace . Disfiguring the House Heidegger 's work is almost always double sided . It repeatedly performs a rigorous dismantling of some aspect of ' the tradition 99 Disfiguring the House of philosophy , only to later revive that very aspect in a displaced form that consolidates whatever had been destabilized . The risk built into Heidegger 's original argument that construction depends upon , and is no more than , an ongoing destruction from within ultimately , and perhaps necessarily , turns on his own writing , his critical unbuilding becoming constructive of the very system it places in question . As Derrida argues , when reading Being and Time , " At a certain point , then , the destruction of metaphysics remains within metaphysics , only making explicit its principles . " 2 All of his many readings of Heidegger 's texts locate this point by applying those texts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Heidegger is , at the very least , " enigmatic " as he once put it.3 He thinks through Heidegger in detail in order to depart from him , taking each text to the limit , elaborating each of its arguments further , but not simply as " an extension or a continuous radicalization , " as he points out elsewhere.4 He departs from Heidegger by following him in a maneuvre that is far from straightforward . Heidegger 's writing is seen to both exemplify the often subtle and elusive operations of the hegemonic tradition that need to be unbuilt and to provide the strategies for doing just that . I do maintain . . . that Heidegger 's text is extremely important to me ... That being said . . . I have marked quite explicitly , in all the essays I have published , as can be verified , a departure from the Heideggerian problematic . . . I sometimes have the feeling that the Heideggerian problematic is the most " profound " and " powerful " defence of what I attempt to put into question under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at once closer to and further away from Heidegger than is usually acknowledged . The " departure " is never simple or complete . His writing never simply moves beyond or outside Heidegger 's discourse . Rather , it interrogates that discourse from within , locating and exploiting certain openings in it . Architecture plays an important role in this interrogation . One of the key symptoms of Heidegger 's allegiance to the very tradition he appears to displace ? which Derrida identifies and which is equally , and necessarily , a point of departure for Derrida 's own work , an opening fora radical displacement of that tradition ? is the figure of the house . When reading the " Letter on Human-100 The Domestication of the House ism , " Derrida argues that it is by employing the chain of metaphors that surround the house that Heidegger " remains within " metaphysics : Whence , in Heidegger 's discourse , the dominance of an entire metaphorics of proximity , of simple and immediate presence , a metaphorics associating the proximity of Being with the values of neighboring , shelter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listening . As goes without saying , this is not an insignificant rhetoric ; . . . the choice of one or another group of metaphors is necessarily significant . It is within a metaphorical insistence , then , that the interpretation of the meaning of Being is produced . ' By making the house thematic , Heidegger identifies the figure that organizes the tradition he attempts to dismantle , but in the end he fails to dismantle the house . On the contrary , he repeatedly advocates a return to it , a withdrawal to the primal shelter , the site of unmediated presence , in order to take refuge from the modern ? which is to say technological ? age of representation that is condemned inasmuch as it produces a generalized " homelessness . " He inhabits metaphysics in a way that does not threaten the authority of the house , succumbing to the risk implicit in his strategy of destruction , the same risk that faces the contemporary appropriations of that strategy by deconstructive discourse that Derrida pointedly describes in terms of the house : To attempt an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is implicit in the founding concepts and the original problematic , by using against the edifice the instruments or stones available in the house , that is , equally , in language . Here , one risks ceaselessly confirming , consolidating , relifting ( relever ) , at an always more certain depth , that which one allegedly deconstructs . The continuous process of making explicit , moving toward an opening , risks sinking into the autism of the closure . ' Secure housing is the greatest risk of deconstructive discourse . It is always possible to rearrange the stones of the house without , in the end , disturbing its capacity to house . Derrida 's prolonged elaboration of Heidegger 's displacement of the architecture of the edifice , problematizing the cumulative logic of building ( **36;1076;TOOLONG ) , which plays such a decisive role in organizing discourse in our culture , must therefore 101 Disfiguring the House also be , in some way , a displacement of the architecture of the house . But deconstructive discourse can not simply reject Heidegger 's use of the traditional figure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his work , since Heidegger 's first argument , picked up so insistently by Derrida , is that it is necessary to inhabit metaphysics in precisely this way , exploiting all its resources , especially its central metaphorical figures , in order to overcome it . Such metaphors can not simply be abandoned . Rather , they have to be affirmed , elaborated , and redeployed to identify exactly what their use both constructs and covers over . Heidegger 's writing never simply upholds the tradition it occupies . Rather , it is " at once contained within it and transgresses it " 8 through an ever shifting double movement . By occupying metaphysics , it establishes the strategic roles of the metaphors that organize it . Heidegger 's appropriation of the house from the tradition is a key example of this . But in occupying that house , he has to transgress it to disrupt the tradition , appropriating it in a way that recovers that which even this forgotten image forgets , identifying the image 's own transgressive potential . Heidegger does not , at first reading , appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of the house as a spatial interior , a space that is itself understood as an alienating technology of control that operates as an agent of metaphysics . The house appears to be simply consolidated rather than deconstructed . Such a deconstruction would be uniquely complicated because the motif of the house , like that of the edifice , is not simply another metaphor ( if metaphors are ever simple ) , but is that which determines the condition of metaphor in the first place . Metaphor is supposedly defined by its detachment from a " proper " meaning . In " The Retrait of Metaphor , " one of Derrida 's most extended readings of the question of metaphor that is always at stake in his work , this sense of the proper is seen to be bound to that of the house . The essay points to " the economic value of the domicile and of the proper both of which often ( or always ) intervene in the definition of the metaphoric. " 9 Throughout his writing , Derrida draws on the Greek association between the household @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When 102 The Domestication of the House speaking of Freud , for example , the house is described as the " familiar dwelling , the proper place . " 10 And elsewhere Derrida notes that in Hegel " the general form of philosophy , is properly familial and produces itself as oikos : home , habitation , . . . the guarding of the proper , of property , propriety , of one 's own . " 11 All of these readings follow a consistent trajectory from his point in " The Ends of Man " that it is precisely in Heidegger 's writing that " the themes of the house and the proper are regularly brought together . " 12 This point can be elaborated by looking at the way Heidegger binds the metaphor of the house to language by linking it to his concept of " appropriation " ( Ereignis ) . Building , understood as housing , is repeatedly described as appropriation.13 Language is a house because it is a mode of appropriation whereby thought recovers presence in the face of alienating representations rather than a form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making proper by excluding representation and establishing a " proximity " to presence.l4 In these terms , the house is the metaphor of that which precedes metaphor . It determines the condition of the proper , from which the metaphorical is then said to be detached and inferior . As the traditional figure of an interior divided from an exterior , it is used to establish a general opposition between an inner world of presence and an outer world of representation that is then used to exclude that very figure as a " mere " metaphor , a representation to be discarded to the outside of philosophy . But the figure always resists such an exclusion . Inasmuch as the condition of metaphor is established by the metaphor of the house , the house is not simply another metaphor that can be discarded . And , more than this , although metaphor is understood as a departure from the house , it is still not a departure from housing . Rather , it is the temporary occupation of another house , a borrowed house . Metaphor is an improper occupation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Consequently , the figure of the house is neither metaphorical nor proper . It is , as Derrida argues in " The Retrait of Metaphor , " " not only metaphoric to say that we inhabit metaphor . . . it is not simply metaphoric . Nor anymore proper , literal or usual . " ' As the figure 103 Disfiguring the House of the house is what makes the distinction between metaphor and proper possible , it is not , according to " White Mythology " : one metaphor among others ; it is there in order to signify metaphor itself ; it is a metaphor of metaphor ; an expropriation , a **32;1114;TOOLONG , but still in a dwelling , outside its own residence but still in a residence in which one comes back to oneself , recognizes oneself , reassembles oneself or resembles oneself , outside oneself in oneself . This is the philosophical metaphor as a detour within ( or in sight of ) appropriation , parousia , the self-presence of the idea in its own light . The metaphorical trajectory from the Platonic eidos to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refers to so often as " the metaphysics of presence " is sustained by the figure of the house in the same way as it is sustained by the figure of the edifice . Since Plato , the house has always been that tradition 's exemplar of presentation . The governing concept of " Idea " as presence , and of the visible world as informed matter , the material presentation of immaterial ideas , is traditionally established with the metaphor of the house produced by an architect , the house as the presentation of an " idea , " as can be seen in Marsilio Ficino 's commentary on Plato : If someone asks in what way the form of the body may be similar to the form and reason of the spirit and the Angel , I ask this person to consider the edifice of the Architect . From the beginning the Architect conceives in his spirit and approximately the Idea of the edifice ; he then makes the house ( according to his ability ) in the way in which he has decided in his mind . Who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it is very similar to the incorporeal Idea of the artisan , in whose image it has been made ? It must certainly be judged for a certain incorporeal order rather than for its matter . " It is only possible to abruptly point to this canonic form of the metaphor here in lieu of tracing its long history in detail by following the curious trajectories and slippages between terms like " maker , " " builder , " " architect , " " demiurge , " " techne , " and so on . Such a detailed reading would show the way in which architecture , and , in particular , the house , is not simply the paradigm of the operations of the idea . Rather , the idea is itself understood as a paradigm ? literally , for Plato , a paradeigma ? or architectural 104 The Domestication of the House model . This particular image plays an important role in the traditional analogy between the philosopher and the architect that has been exploited by both discourses . Philosophy does not depart from itself to illustrate its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrary , it forever circulates around the house , departing from it only to stage a return to it . This can be seen when , in defining the essence of technology , Heidegger notes that the original sense of techne , from which philosophy has departed , is " to be entirely at home zu Hause in something . " ' But to define essence , he uses the example of the " essence of a house Ham , " and then draws on Plato 's theory of " Ideas " to describe the house 's condition . To determine the essence of techne as housing , he determines the sense of essence by reference to the house . The house is not simply an example of essence . It does not simply illustrate presence or essence . Rather , it is used to define them . Neither can be thought outside the house . In such involuted circulations between concepts and the image of a house , which regularly punctuate the tradition of philosophy , the sense of the house as an interior never goes away , even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . The house is always first understood as the most primitive drawing of a line that produces an inside opposed to an outside , a line that acts as a mechanism of domestication . It is as the paradigm of interiority that the house is indispensable to philosophy , establishing the distinction between the interiority of presence and the exteriority of representation on which the discourse depends . In all the binary pairs of terms with which metaphysics organizes itself , as Derrida argues when reading Plato , " each of the terms must be simply external to the other , which means that one of these oppositions ( the opposition between inside and outside ) must already be accredited as the matrix of all possible opposition . " 19 Consequently , the philosophical system is organized by spatial metaphors it can not abandon . It is itself necessarily spatial . When noting the way in which Freud 's theoretical system both invokes and discredits spatial metaphors , Derrida claims " a certain spatiality , inseparable from the very idea of system , is 105 Disfiguring the House irreducible. " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reading of the way Emmanuel Levinas identifies being as an " exteriority " only to argue that it is not spatial . Insisting on " the necessity of lodging oneself within traditional conceptuality in order to destroy it , " Derrida argues that " one would attempt in vain , in order to wean language from exteriority and interiority . . . for one would never come across a language without the rupture of space . " 21 Space is the very possibility of language and the tradition of thinking that believes it can transcend space and employ language as merely a temporary and necessarily inadequate vehicle for its pure ( which is to say , aspatial ) thought . Consequently , one must " inhabit " the spatial metaphor that is " congenital " to philosophy in order to question it : I t is necessary still to inhabit the spatial metaphor in ruins , to dress oneself in tradition 's shreds and the devil 's patches ? all this means , perhaps , that there is no philosophical logos which must not first let itself be expatriated into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Site , toward spatial locality is the metaphor congenital to the philosophical logos . Before being a rhetorical procedure within language , metaphor would be the emergence of language itself . And philosophy is only this language . . . one must not expect , henceforth , to separate language and space , to empty language of space . " Here Derrida is clearly following Heidegger 's claim in Being and Time that spatial significations ( Raumbedeutungen ) are irreducible in language : " Is it an accident that proximally and for the most part significations are worldly , ' sketched out beforehand by the significance of the world , that they are indeed often predominantly spatial ' ? " 23 In a later reading of Heidegger Derrida draws on this argument , briefly elaborating it by simply restating it , but in a way that identifies a spatiality within the philosophical tradition in its very attempt to exclude spatiality : " The phenomenon of so-called spatializing metaphors is not at all accidental , nor within the reach of the rhetorical concept of metaphor . ' It is not some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be thought outside that of exterior . Space can not simply be excluded , as any act of exclusion constructs a space by dividing an inside from an outside . 106 The Domestication of the House To this we can add that this irreducible spatiality turns around the figure of the house . The spatial metaphor that must be " inhabited " is actually the metaphor of inhabitation itself . The house is constitutionally bound into the metaphysical tradition and can not simply be subordinated as a metaphor . It can never be exterior to philosophy , as it produces the very sense of interior on which that tradition is based . The edifice of metaphysics is necessarily a house . Within every explicit appeal to the necessity of stable construction is an implicit appeal to the necessity of a secure house . The philosophical economy is always a domestic economy , the economy of the domestic , the family house , the familiar enclosure . Deconstructive discourse must therefore be first and foremost an occupation of the idea of the house that displaces it from within . Taking Shelter in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout Derrida 's texts without it ever being their ostensible subject . It is a kind of subtext that surfaces in radically different contexts and usually in small and scattered fragments . A sense of this house and its strategic role can be built by assembling some of these fragments here . In Derrida 's work all of the associations with the traditional figure of an edifice on secure foundations slide into that of the secure domestic enclosure . If to ground a structure is to build a house , to constrain the unruly play of representations is to house them , to domesticate them . Just as Derrida 's sporadic but multiple references to the edifice identify speech as structural and writing as superstructural , his references to the house identify speech as inside the house , whereas writing is outside . In his account of Plato , for example , the logos " does not wander , stays at home , " whereas writing is " unattached to any house , " 25 such that " in nothing does writing reside . " 26 To sustain the tradition that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as he puts it in another essay , " to take shelter in the most familial of dwellings . " 27 And in another context , the " lour of Me lroll.sy , , tile initial organization of ' a dwelling space " represses play when 107 Taking Shelter in the Uncanny difference is " enclosed . " 28 Elsewhere , the economy of metaphysics literally attempts to " arrest , domesticate , tame " 29 the other . In these terms , all his work " analyzes ' philosophical power in its domestic regime , " 30 as he once describes his earliest readings of Husserl . This domestic regime is both the space that philosophy claims for itself and the arguments made within that space . In appropriating the space as its own and delimiting its territory , it is defining its law , defining it precisely as a law of domesticity , philosophical law as the law of enforced domesticity . The space of philosophy is not just a domestic space , it is a space in which a certain idea about the domestic is sustained and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capacity to define inside and outside , but not simply because that which is located inside is domesticated . For Derrida , the " outside " of a house continues to be organized by the logic of the house and so actually remains inside it . By being placed outside , the other is placed , domesticated , kept inside . To be excluded is to be subjected to a certain domestic violence that is both organized and veiled by metaphysics.31 Metaphysics is no more than a determination of place , the production of the sense of a pure interior divided from an improper exterior , a privileged realm of presence uncorrupted by representation . Whatever disrupts metaphysics disrupts this sense of interior . Derrida 's work is concerned with that which " threatens the paternal logos . And which by the same token threatens the domestic , hierarchical interior . " 32 His texts everywhere , albeit obliquely , question the sense of the house ultimately reinforced by Heidegger . But , significantly , Derrida 's " departure " from Heidegger is not a departure from the house . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of representation , nor is the realm of representation simply seen to occupy the interior . Rather , the economy of representation is seen to structure the interior as such . The sense of interior is actually an effect of representation . It is produced by what it supposedly excludes . Derrida departs from Heidegger by tacitly locating a violation within the structure of the house that is repressed by a systematic domestic violence that is itself in turn concealed by the apparent structure of the house . The constitutional violation of the edifice by the abyss 108 The Domestication of the House that Heidegger demonstrated to be necessary for that structure to stand is equally the constitutional violation of the house that makes its capacity to house possible . The fracturing of the ground is equally , in Derrida 's hands , a fracturing of the walls . The house of metaphysics is deconstructed by locating the " traces of an alterity which refuses to be totally domesticated " 33 and yet can not be excluded , that which resists metaphysics because it can not be placed either inside or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet is indispensable to the operations of metaphysics . In a footnote in " The Double Session , " Derrida identifies its account of undecidability as a " rereading " of Freud 's essay " The Uncanny " ( Das Unheimliche ) which , as is well known , describes the uneasy sense of the unfamiliar within the familiar , the unhomely within the home . Freud pays attention to the way the term for homely ( heimliche ) is defined both as " belonging to the house , not strange , familiar , tame , intimate , friendly , etc. " and as what seems at first to be its opposite : " concealed , kept from sight , so that others do not get to know of or about it , withheld from others . " 34 In this structural slippage from heimliche to unheimliche that which supposedly lies outside the familiar comfort of the home turns out to be inhabiting it all along , surfacing only in a return of the repressed as a foreign element that strangely seems to belong in the very domain that renders it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " we find ourselves constantly being brought back to that text . " 35 But despite , or perhaps because of , the unique attraction of this text or , more likely , its subject , it is never explicitly analyzed in the essay other than as a brief point in another footnote . Nor is it read in depth anywhere else in Derrida 's writings . Like the figure of the house to which it is bound , it is a theme that can be traced throughout Derrida 's work without it ever becoming a discrete subject , as if it is itself repressed , returning only occasionally to surface in very isolated and what seem , at first , to be minor points . But precisely for this reason it can be argued that its effects actually pervade all the texts that are unable or unwilling to speak about it . " " Derrida repeatedly , one might almost say compulsively , identifies the undecidables that uncannily intimate the violence 109 Taking Shelter in the Uncanny within the familiar domain , which is to say , the domain of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as he puts it , " domestic but utterly foreign , " 37 the uncanny exposes the covert operations of the house . For this reason its constitutional violation of the ostensible order of the house is itself repressed , domesticated by the very domestic violence it makes possible . Metaphysics is no more than the disguising of this domestic violence that in turn represses the fundamental strangeness of the house . The house of metaphysics represses the violation that made it possible . More than a domestic violence , this is the violence of the domestic itself . Derrida locates within the house that which is actually , as Of Grammatology puts it , " the sickness of the outside ( which comes from the outside but also draws outside , thus equally , or inversely , the sickness of the homeland , a homesickness , so to speak ) . " 38 Heidegger 's sickness for the home is displaced by Derrida 's sickness of the home . As their shared insistence on the necessity of a strategic inhabitation of the tradition would lead us to expect , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows Heidegger ? indeed , goes even further into his work . Long before Heidegger explicitly raised the question of the house , his Being and Time had argued that the familiar everyday world is precisely a " fleeing in the face of uncanniness " that " suppresses everything unfamiliar . " 39 The concept had already been introduced in his 1925 lectures at Marburg in terms of the feeling of dread when " one no longer feels at home in his most familiar environment . " 40 Through the systematic concealment of the uncanny in everyday life , the familiar is actually a mode of uncanniness.41 Just as the alienation of modern life is not simply produced by the abyss underlying all structures but by the covering over of that abyss , it is equally produced by covering over the uncanniness behind and of the familiar.42 The apparent innocence of the familiar is but a mask that alienates by masking a more fundamental alienation : " the obviousness and self-assurance of the average ways in which things have been interpreted are such that while the particular 1 ) asein drifts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncanniness of this floating remains hidden from it under their protecting shelter . " The mask of the familiar is a 110 The Domestication of the House primitive shelter , a house , or rather a pseudohouse , which veils a fundamental unfamiliarity . The uncanny is literally a " notbeing-at-home , " an alienation from the house experienced within it . With its discovery , " everyday familiarity collapses , " and the " not-at-home " concealed by this familiarity " must be conceived as the more primordial phenomenon . " 44 Heidegger attempts to interrogate the familiar to discover what he later describes as the " danger " concealed within it : " Such questions bring us into the realm of what is familiar , even most familiar . For thinking , this always remains the real danger zone , because the familiar carries an air of harmlessness and ease , which causes us to pass lightly over what really deserves to be questioned . " 45 From the beginning , his work attempts to displace the familiar , or at least place it at risk , in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the familiar house . This question would be tacitly raised but symptomatically never answered by his later work . To comprehend Derrida 's thinking of the house , we need to go even further into Heidegger 's thinking about it . Instead of simply rejecting Heidegger 's ultimately reactionary use of the figure , 46 we have to locate the circuitous openings within his argument that can be used to displace it . The Violence of the House The symptomatic way in which Heidegger 's questioning of the familiar through a questioning of home begins to slide into a questioning of the house can be seen when the 1935 essay " The Origin of the Work of Art " locates the uncanny danger within the very comfort of home : We believe we are at home in the immediate circle of beings . That which is familiar , reliable , ordinary . Nevertheless , the clearing is pervaded by a constant concealment in the double form of refusal and dissembling . At bottom the ordinary is not ordinary ; it is extraordinary , uncanny.41 This sense was developed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argues at length that metaphysics is the mechanism of the concealment of the uncanny by the familiar , III The Violence of the House but does so in a way that redefines inhabitation . A reading of Sophocles ' Antigone ( itself described as a " poetic edifice " ) is used to affirm that " man " 48 is the " uncanniest of all beings " 49 and to identify two sides of this uncanniness , each of which involve a certain violence . On the one hand , man is violent , violating both enclosure and structure ( " he who breaks out and breaks up " 50 ) and violently domesticating things with technology ( " he who captures and subjugates " 51 ) in defining a home . On the other hand , there is the " overpowering " violence of Being , which the familiar space of the home attempts to cover over but which compels a certain panic and fear within it , and inevitably forces man out of it . The endless conflict between these two forms of violence is constitutional rather than simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an act of violence by a subject while the other is an act of violence against that subject . Rather , the conflict between them is the very possibility of the subject 's existence , indeed , the existence of any thing as such . " Man " does not build a home in the same way that man does not build a language . Rather , " man " is built by the home . But , equally , it must be emphasized here , " man " is built by its destruction . Heidegger is not speaking about literal houses , that is , spatial enclosures erected on particular sites . Significantly , he always describes the home as a kind of interior , but it is the very sense of spatial interior that masks the interiority he is describing . From his earliest texts , Heidegger always insists that the fundamental sense of the word " in " is not spatial in the sense of the occupation of a " spatial container ( room , building ) " but is the sense of the familiar.52 Through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gewalt-tatigkeit ) , man " cultivates and guards the familiar , only in order to break out of it and to let what overpowers it break in " 53 my emphasis . Man both occupies the enclosing structure and " tears it open , " but can not master the overpowering and so is " tossed back and forth between structure and the structureless , " 54 between using the structure to violently master and violating it ? both of which " fling him out of the home " " my emphasis , the " homeland , " the " place , " the " solid ground , " and into the " placeless confusion " of the ? " groumlless " " abyss " as a " honwicss " " alien " : 112 The Domestication of the House We are taking the strange , the uncanny das Unheimliche , as that which casts us out of the " homely , " i.e. the customary , familiar , secure . The unhomely Unheimische prevents us from making ourselves at home and therein it is overpowering . But man is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life amid the strange understood in this sense but because he departs from his customary , familiar limits , because he is the violent one , who , tending toward the strange in the sense of the overpowering , surpasses the limit of the familiar das Heimische .... not only that in so doing he is a violent one striving beyond his familiar sphere . No , beyond all this he becomes the strangest of all beings because , without issue on all paths , he is cast out of every relation to the familiar .... without city and place , lonely , strange , and alien ... Man embarks on the groundless deep , forsaking the solid land .... he abandons the place , he starts out and ventures into the preponderant power of the placeless waves.56 This is not just an argument using spatial metaphors to make a point that is not itself spatial . The text is organized around an explicit argument about space . Its rejection of the sense that material building is an act of man , rather than its possibility , is developed into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in space , as distinct from producing space ( Raum ) , or , more precisely , place ( Ort ) . For Heidegger , this sense is seen to be sustained by the basic claim of metaphysics inaugurated by Plato that material objects stand in a preexisting space , offering surfaces to the eye of a subject who also occupies that space , an " outward appearance " that presents an immaterial idea . The degeneration of philosophy is seen to begin with its ancient account of space . Heidegger argues that the Greeks had no word for " space " and refers to Plato 's Timaeus to demonstrate that the theory of ideas as models ( paradeigma ) is actually the original theory of space.57 In speaking of ideas , Plato is seen to have invented space and thereby initiated the degeneration that is only reaching its most extreme and explicit form with modernity . This argument was picked up in Heidegger 's lectures on Nietzsche of the following year . At one point , they closely follow a section of Plato 's Republic that explains the doctrine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( demiourgos ) . Plato 's tripartite distinction between the idea , the way the craftsman 's object presents the idea , and its representation in a painting is exemplified for Heidegger in Ole way that " Oh , amassed 113 The Violence of the House stone of the house " is a " presenting " that acts to " bring the idea into appearance " differently than its representation in a painting.58 Against Nietzsche , Heidegger attempts to argue that for Plato this difference is , in the end , but one of degree . The house itself becomes an image , albeit a superior one as it is closer to truth . But Plato 's text does not actually talk about the house . It refers to objects that , as Heidegger notes , " we find commonly in use in many homes , " 59 namely , tables and bedframes , but not the home itself . And Heidegger does not just add this example . He begins and ends his reading with it , reframing and refocusing the original argument . Clearly , he can not separate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His argument about the violence of home inevitably heads toward the house . The violent construction of a home and exile from it that he describes are not simply historical events . They are built into the home as its very structure in the same way that the abyss is the possibility of any edifice erected upon it . Like the loss of ground , this violence is " fundamental " but is covered over by the interdependent senses of secure structure and secure enclosure . The house is made possible by the very violence it conceals . Heidegger 's revision of the condition of building ? such that structure rises rather than falls with the loss of ground ? is also a revision of the condition of enclosure , as can be seen when he addresses the question of the house more directly in a later essay : " Language speaks . If we let ourselves fall into the abyss denoted by this sentence , we do not go tumbling into emptiness . We fall upward , to a height . Its loftiness opens up a depth . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become at home , so as to find a residence , a dwelling place for the life of man . " 60 It is the absence of the ground that makes a residence . Housing , like building , is abysmal . Just as the edifice conceals itself in concealing the abyss , the house conceals itself in concealing the uncanny ( the theme of the abyss being entangled with that of the uncanny throughout Heidegger 's work ) . It is because the house conceals the unhomeliness that constitutes it that the " mere " occupation of a house , which is to say the acceptance of its representation of interior , call never be authentic dwelling . Those " residing " in the home : 114 The Domestication of the House " the merely casual possession of domestic things and the inner life " 61 ? are not at home . Home is precisely the place where the essence of home is most concealed . Homecoming is therefore not simply the return to the space of the home , because it is within that space that the home most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own essence . Within the spatial interior there is another kind of interior , within which the essence of the home resides . The home is therefore " mysterious " to those who occupy it : " proximity to the source is a mystery . " fie To be at home is precisely to be at home with this irreducible mystery . Heidegger plays on the way the word for mystery ? Geheimnisvoll ? has the home 's capacity to conceal , to make secret ( Geheim ) , built into it . It is therefore the homeless that come nearest to the essence of home that can never simply be occupied . Just as it is only by falling into the abyss that a poet can determine the condition of the structure , 63 it is only the poet 's exile from the home that can establish its strange condition , the unfamiliarity of its apparently familiar enclosure : " In his exile from home , the home is first disclosed as such . But in one with it and only thus , the alien , the overpowering , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole of the essent is disclosed . In this disclosure unconcealment takes place . But this is nothing other than the happening of the unfamiliar . " 64 In the end , it is only the alien that dwells . In this way , the origin around which the tradition of philosophy organizes itself is not a " primitive innocence : " A beginning , on the contrary , always contains the undisclosed abundance of the unfamiliar and extraordinary , which means that it also contains strife within the familiar and ordinary , " 65 which is to say that the origin itself becomes uncanny . It is already defined by an exchange between internal violation and external violence . The original sense of logos on which metaphysics is based necessarily participates in this violence . It is itself , for Heidegger , an " act of violence . " 66 This fundamental sense , however , has been lost . Metaphysics is institutionalized by repressing the originary violence , making familiar that which is actually a departure from the familiar , a departure from the original sense of the house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originary homelessness " insofar as the home is dominated by the appearance of the ordinary , customary , and commonplace . " 67 " Man " is detached from the house and the ground precisely by following philosophy in thinking of them as secure . The radical insecurity of the uncanny is concealed by the familiar sense that " man " speaks language , rather than language speaking " man , " that " man " builds , rather than building constructing man as such.68 " Man " occupies the familiar , which is " out of ' its essence rather than being " at home in " it , which is not to say that its essence lies elsewhere , in some other interior . On the contrary , it is the uncanniness that " resides " in the familiar that is his essence . Heidegger 's argument convolutes traditional thinking about space . Spaces are not simply built and occupied . It is only with metaphysics that a stable ground is seen rather than an abyss , a secure house rather than an exile from it . Because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concealed . And more than this , they become generic figures of the exclusion of violence . For Heidegger , the " supreme " act of violence is to conceal the originary violence behind the mask of the familiar . It is this constitutional violence of the house that is the opening within Heidegger 's discourse that could be exploited to displace the philosophical tradition from within . But whereas Heidegger explicitly identifies the violence of the figure of the edifice , associating violence with the uncanny , 69 and arguing that it is precisely because violence is built into the apparent innocence of building that violence is itself uncanny , 70 he never directly identifies the violence of the house itself . He identifies the uncanniness of " housing " but not the uncanniness of the house . Like Freud , he seems to preserve the familiar status of the house while defining an unfamiliar scene within it . The house becomes the site of a violence of which it is innocent . Interior Violence It is in these terms that we must reread Derrida 's work before it explicitly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific architectural projects . The question to be asked of 116 The Ikmuestication of the Ilouse that writing becomes something like : If Derrida locates the uncanny within the house by following Heidegger who , in the end , restores the very space of the house he repeatedly undermines , what about the house itself in Derrida 's work ? But , of course , the question is still too quick . Can we even speak of such a thing as " the house itself " ? To expose houses to deconstruction , which is actually to expose ourselves to the deconstructie movements that are the very possibility of the house , would surely be to problematize the distinction between the literal and the metaphorical house . To raise the question of the material house , and therefore , of architectural spaces and practices in general , in Derrida 's writing would not be to look for " houses " as such but to look for the problematization of such an idea . Yet again , such a gesture can first be found in Derrida 's reading of Heidegger . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ space of the house nor dismantles it , but is the side-effect of an oscillation between these gestures . Heidegger 's repeated attempts to detach the literal sense of the house from his argument have already radically transformed the house in a way that is covered over when he equally repeatedly slips and restores the literal figure . The literal sense is never simply abandoned in favor of the metaphorical . In " The Ends of Man , " Derrida argues that the " Letter on Humanism " makes the house uncanny by locating it beyond or before that opposition . The house is no longer simply the site of the uncanny , the familiar space within which the unfamiliar resides . It is itself already uncanny . Just as Heidegger had argued in 1935 that Karat 's architectural rhetoric is no " mere ornament ' , 71 of his philosophy , he argues in the " Letter on Humanism " that his own thinking about the house is not an independent ornament added to an otherwise self-sufficient philosophy in order to reveal its inner structure ; the house is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the figure and the philosophy that appears to employ it is subtle and convoluted : " it is no adornment of a thinking .. . The talk about the house of Being is no transfer of the image house ' to Being . But one day we will , by thinking the essence of Being in a way appropriate to its matter , more readily be able to 117 Interior Violcli t. think what . house ' and to dwell ' are . " 72 This displaces the traditional status of ' architecture , radically subverting the tradition of philosophy that is defined by its determination that the architectural images it employs are " merely " metaphorical , temporary supplements to the main body of the argument that will eventually , and necessarily , be abandoned . Philosophy 's familiar image of presence ? the house ? becomes doubly unfamiliar when it is no longer seen as an innocent image of innocence , separable from the arguments it is attached to , but is a construction of those very arguments whose dependence on them is veiled in order that it can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth , a testament to their very innocence . In this way , that which is most familiar becomes unfamiliar . The house is no longer the paradigm of presence . It is first and foremost a representation ( albeit of the absence of representation ) . It is not just that the house 's status as an institutionally produced and sustained image is simply exposed , but that the familiar itself becomes an image . The ostensible realm of proximity , immediacy , nearness , and so on becomes a realm of extreme detachment . To remove the metaphorical status of the house fundamentally displaces the tradition of metaphysics that maintains it as such . The whole economy turning around the house is disrupted . " Being , " that which is , by definition , nearest , is no longer simply explained by the image of that which is nearest , the house . But , as Derrida points out , nor is the house to be simply explained by the study of Being . Both are made strange . The opposition between that which is known and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is far , is radically disturbed . And the loss of the innocence of the house is somehow written into the structure of the philosophical tradition that constitutes itself by endlessly denying that loss . " House of Being " would not operate , in this context , in the manner of a metaphor in the current , usual , that is to say , literal meaning ( sens ) of metaphor , if there is one . This current and cursive meaning ... would transport a familiar predicate ( and here nothing is more familiar , familial , known , domestic and economic , one would think , than the house ) toward a less familiar , and more remote , unheimlich ( uncanny ) subject , which it would be a question of better appropriating for one-IIH The Dolnesti-ati-n- of , the Ihn-se self , becoming familiar with , understanding , and which one would thus designate by the indirect detour of what is nearest ? the house . Now what happens here with the quasi-metaphor of the house of Being , and what does without metaphor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , from the very moment of its withdrawal , would let or promise to let the house or the habitat be thought .... One could be tempted to formalize this rhetorical inversion where , in the trope " house of Being , " Being says more to us , or promises more about the house than the house about Being . But this would be to miss what is most strictly proper in what the Heideggerian text would say in this place . In the inversion considered , Being has not become the proper of this supposedly known , familiar , nearby being , which one believed the house to be in the common metaphor . And if the house has become a bit unheimlich , this is not for having been replaced , in the role of " what is nearest , " by " Being . " We are therefore no longer dealing with a simple inversion permutating the places in a usual tropical structure . 73 It is this double displacement that organizes the figure of the house in Derrida 's writing . The link between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important theme throughout his work . The house is always invoked as the familiar abode , the abode of the family but equally the abode of the familiar . But although he repeatedly identifies the chain of house-economy-law-family with metaphysics , the family scene he reconstructs is not simply a metaphor of metaphysics , a familiar image that offers access to an unfamiliar conceptual structure . On the contrary , metaphysics is , if anything , a kind of metaphor of the family , the familiar means of access to the endlessly strange structure of the family.74 In this Heideggerian gesture , the very familiarity of the family is the product of metaphysics , which is no more than the institution of domestication itself . It is the violence of the " household " of metaphysics that produces the family in producing the image of individual subjects independent from the house whose interior they occupy . That is , of subjects as that which can be housed , violently domesticated by a structure that can dissimulate that violence . Derrida 's displacement of metaphysics ' capacity to domesticate must also be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is its paradigmatic mechanism of domestication . To displace metaphysics is already to displace domesticity . The house no longer simply houses . The paradigm of security becomes the site of the most radical insecurity ? indeed , the very source of 119 Intel ior Violence insecurity . Security becomes but the uncanny effect of the repression of insecurity . Yet again it is important to note that this displacement of architecture in Derrida 's work does not occur in explicitly architectural terms . To raise the question of the unfamiliarity of architecture , the strangeness of even its most routine definitions of space , the terms of the discourse must shift . It is not a question of simply applying the discourse to something seemingly outside it , like " material space , " but of rethinking the space of discourse itself . That which seems most proper to material architectural practices , the articulation of space , is actually the product of multiple systems of representation that construct the very sense of a material world that can be shaped or read by discourses detached from it . Architecture is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem to be independent of it and whose disguise produces this sense of independence on which its unique cultural role is based . These mechanisms are exemplified by the institution of philosophy , but are also embedded within the multiple cultural practices of so-called everyday life . The deconstruction of this institution therefore does not simply have architectural consequences . It must be architectural from the beginning , which is to say that as long as architecture is seen to remain outside , or even after , the " unbuilding " of philosophy , then that philosophy is actually being consolidated by what appears to deconstruct it . It is precisely when deconstructive discourse " turns to " architecture ? by describing particular buildings or even by simply raising the question of buildings ? that it runs the greatest risk of reestablishing the tradition of metaphysics , which defines itself by keeping architecture in a certain place . The tradition 's capacity to domesticate literally depends on the domestication of architecture . In the end , the philosophical economy turns on the domestication of the idea of house . But , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of domesticating architecture , as any refusal , or even delay , to engage with buildings also reinforces their traditional status . Buildings can no more be isolated from deconstruction than particular houses can be isolated from Heidegger 's writing 120 The Ikn wstication of flit I louse and its politics . It is in terms of the risk of architecture , which is necessarily a political risk , that Derrida 's engagement with architecture must be read . It is important to note here that before it begins to speak of architecture , all of Derrida 's writing is a rethinking of interiority . This rethinking had already begun with his original appropriation of Heidegger when " deconstruction " is itself understood as a certain way of inhabiting the tradition . When Heidegger says we shall place ourselves within the structure itself , " 75 " keeping it destruction within its the tradition 's limits , " 76 he has already given the edifice of philosophy an interior . In fact , it is already a house . In rethinking that space , both Heidegger and Derrida address the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " They already participate in the tradition organized around a certain image of housing inasmuch as they describe that tradition as something that can be occupied , something that has an interior and can be inhabited : The movements of deconstruction do not destroy structures from the outside . They are not possible and effective , nor can they take accurate aim , except by inhabiting those structures . Inhabiting them in a certain way , because one always inhabits , and all the more when one does not suspect it . Operating necessarily from the inside , borrowing all the strategic and economic resources of subversion from the old structure , borrowing them structurally . " Deconstructive discourse , if it is anything , is no more than a rethinking of inhabitation . It never involves a simple departure from an enclosure . On the contrary , it goes further into the structure , running the risk of consolidating it in order to locate the cracks that both hold it up and produce the sense of interior in the first place . In so doing , it locates the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the violence that makes institutions possible but is concealed by them in a way that produces the effect of a space . There is no violence without institution , no institution without space , no space without violence . And more than this , violence is always domestic , but not because it goes on within an interior . Rather , it is the violence of the interior as such , a violence that is at once enacted and 121 Interim Violence dissimulated by familiar representations of space , representations that are so familiar that they are not even understood to be representations . The question of deconstruction is therefore first and foremost a question of the uncanniness of violence . To speak here of " deconstruction and architecture " is not to simply speak of an uncanny or violated architecture but the uncanniness of architecture as such , the violence of even , if not especially , the most banal of spaces , spaces that are violent in their very banality. 5 Throwing Up Architecture To disrupt the house by identifying its constitutional uncanniness is at the same time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structural relationship between the house 's ability to position things and the tradition 's ability to position the house . To understand exactly how deconstructive discourse displaces architecture , it is necessary to return again to the institutional contract that positions architecture and elaborate some of its terms in more detail , paying attention to the fine print and looking for the loopholes , openings in the structure that are constantly being exploited in unrecognized , and often unrecognizable , ways . This can be done here by returning to the positioning of architecture by Karat 's texts . If , as we have seen , architecture , understood as an edifice ( an ornamented structure in which the ornament is meant to be subordinate to the structure it articulates ) is doubly subordinated by philosophy ( located within the inferior aesthetic domain and then subordinated within that domain ) yet plays a central role in establishing the very mechanism of that subordination , the question becomes : what is the strategic role of architecture when it is understood as housing ? What role does the image of the house play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , what role do the hidden complications of the house play in that positioning ? To ask these questions does not involve looking for " houses " in the discourse , but for the discursive effects of particular ideas 124 Throwing lip Ar hitc ? rturc about housing ; ideas that often do not manifest themselves as such but are embedded within the discourse and surface only by way of various forms of displacement . These displacements even operate within those moments where the discourse is explicitly addressing or deploying the figure of the house . Talk of houses usually acts as a cover for that which is threatening about houses . Furthermore , there can be no talk about anything without this cover . The idea of a discourse can never be separated from a certain talk about houses , that is really to say a certain silence , not the absence of talk but a certain fold within the fabric of the discourse which hides something unspeakable . To locate these folds in order to comprehend the strategic role of the house can not involve simply listening to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one that actively employs gestures that are at once more oblique and more brutal . And , in the end , the question of the house turns out to be precisely one of obliqueness and brutality . The Taste of Derrida Within The Critique of Judgement we can easily find the subordination of space to speech that Heidegger reproduces and Derrida undermines , a subordination made possible by the architectural figure of the edifice . Kant describes fine art as a form of expression in which the dead body of an object is given life by an artist , animated in a way that presents the artist 's soul : " through these figures the soul of the artist furnishes a bodily expression for the substance and character of his thought , and makes the thing itself speak , as it were , in mimic language . . . attributes to lifeless things a soul suitable to their form , and . . . uses them as its mouthpiece. " 1 Fine art speaks . It is listened to rather than read . Aesthetic judgment depends on the belief that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a beautiful object is common to all mankind and is , therefore , the voice of nature rather than culture . Whereas cultural conventions organize signs that remain in the bodily realm detached from and subordinate to what they represent , aesthetic taste requires a complete disinterest in the bodily existence of the object : its utility , function , or I25 I'h ( ( ' lade ttl I ) t ? t i itla purpose . Taste is that encounter with an object in which the object is not consumed , not mastered through appropriation , not made servile , not used as a means to some independent end . Aesthetic pleasure is attained through the suspension of all bodily desire and its " gratification " in the " mere enjoyments of sense found in eating and drinking . " 2 To taste is to spit the object out before it is consumed , to detach oneself from the object . Aesthetic detachment is explicitly opposed to the consumption ( use ) of an object in an economy . For Kant , fine art transcends the economic realm in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being " free " precisely " in a sense opposed to contract work , as not being a work the magnitude of which may be estimated , exacted , or paid for according to a definite standard . " ' This exclusion of the economic from the aesthetic is also the exclusion of representation ( the contractually organized exchange of signs for things ) . The Critique of Judgement is organized by the need to privilege expression over representation by preventing the contamination of fine art by the bodily economy from which it detaches itself , but on which it nevertheless depends . It establishes a hierarchy of the arts in which poetry is the most privileged because it most resembles the immateriality of speech , and architecture is the least privileged because it remains in the contractual economy of consumption ? representing bodily function rather than presenting the soul : The determining ground of whose architecture 's form is not nature but an arbitrary end . . . In architecture the chief point is a certain use of the artistic object to which , as the condition , the aesthetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ product to a particular use is the essential element in a work of architecture . ' Buildings are subordinated to speech because they are bound to consumption . For philosophy , there is a structural affinity between architecture , physical desire , eating and drinking . The art of space is degenerate . But if the figure of the house , like that of the edifice , is employed by philosophy to effect this very subordination by being aligned with speech , the house must be seen as detached from digestion , not to mention indigestion . Indeed , it must act as the very figure of this detachment . If the figure of the house is that of the privileged interior , the space of 126 Throwing Up Archi ( ecturr unmediated presence , or , more precisely , the site of the exclusion of space by presence , it must be unlike a stomach . There should be no consumption in the ideal house , no exchange within or across its borders . The architectural figure is again double , sometimes acting as the model of philosophy 's desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transcend . When architecture is explicitly addressed , it is excluded as the paradigm of consumption . But when it is understood as a figure , it is the paradigm of that very exclusion . For philosophy , there is a world of difference between architecture and its figure . But what is it about architecture that allows this reversal to take place ? How can the figure of architecture " stand " against architecture ? This can not simply involve a reversal . The figure must be tied in some way to what it appears to detach itself from . Philosophy 's opposing constructions of architecture can not be separated . Its fundamental ambivalence about architecture , an ambivalence without which it could n't function , actually occurs within both its ideal construction of architecture as some kind of abstract spatiality and its construction of architecture as a material spatiality . The digestive system that the house both exemplifies and opposes is the site of the internalization of the outside . The figure of the house is that of exclusion that maintains a line between inside and outside , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , endlessly folding the limit , transforming one into the other . At the same time , digestion 's messy realm of confusion is also the space of separation , that which makes possible the sense that the body has an interior in the first place . The digestive system , which is neither inside or outside the body , maintains the limits of the body . Likewise , the sense of the house depends on that which subverts it . The two senses of architecture are interdependent . It is the labor of philosophy to preserve the sense that they can be separated . It is significant that Derrida 's work , which is everywhere concerned with such confusions of limits that actually makes them possible and always understands the house as a mechanism of consumption whose " domestic law " is economic , an " assmilatory power " ' that works to preserve what he once calls its " intestine " 6 condition , does not simply abandon the aesthetic but exploits a 127 ' I'lir ' 1 ' : tstt ail Ih ? ttitl:t subversive possibility within it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Economimesis " argues that fine art only detaches itself from the representational economy of material objects in order to participate in a " divine economy " in which the artist imitates God by transcending the world of products for that of pure productivity . The human artist 's non-exchangeable productivity becomes exchangeable with that of God . This exchange takes place on the basis of what Kant describes as a " regular agreement , " an " accordance , " a " compact , " sealed by the " trace " inscribed in nature that authorizes nature as a work of art . In the moment of transcending the realm of contracts , a divine economy constitutes itself on the basis of a contract sealed by the signature of the divine artist . This hidden contract provides the rules for fine art by organizing an expressive language : " the cipher in which nature speaks to us figuratively in its beautiful forms . " 7 The human artist is able to imitate the divine artist by speaking this natural language . Derrida examines the conditions of this contract to see if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , taste rather than consumption . He notes that as fine art is a form of speech , the aesthetic turn away from bodily consumption toward taste does not leave the mouth . The mouth is the site of both bodily consumption and ideal detachment . The privileging of expression , of speech over writing , of production over consumption , by the tradition of metaphysics disguises an economy of secret consumption , covert representation governed by repressed desire . Throughout his work , Derrida argues that to exclude something by placing it " outside " is actually to control it , to put it in its place , to enclose it . To exclude is to include . The very gesture of expelling representation appropriates it . Metaphysics appropriates whatever it places in " its " outside , such that " its outside is never its outside . " ' To expel representation to the " outside , " for example , is to place it in " the exteriority , that it represses : that is expels and , which amounts to the same , internalizes as one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lock something up does n't involve simply imprisoning it within four walls . It is imprisoned simply by being banned . In fact , it is enclosed even IlM Throwing Architrchur before it is officially excluded inasmuch as it can be defined , portrayed as some kind of object that can be placed , whether inside or outside . It is not so much a question of placing it within visible limits as declaring that it has limits : " expulsed , excluded , objectified or ( curiously amounting to the same thing ) assimilated and mastered as one of its moments . . . constituting its contrary as an object in order to be protected from it and to be rid of it . In order to lock it up . " 10 Each official prohibition marks the presence of a forbidden desire , the covert assimilation of that which should not be eaten : " to renounce the other ( not by being weaned from it , but by detaching oneself from it , which is actually to be in relation to it , to respect it while nevertheless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identifying it , assimilating it ) . " 11 The metaphysics of production is always a secret economy of consumption . Everywhere , the tradition carries out its work of consumption behind the disguise of detachment , consuming what it claims to detach itself from . In these terms , aesthetic detachment only excludes bodily consumption in order to master the object by consuming it ideally : " it also passes through a certain mouth . . . assimilates everything to itself by idealizing it within interiority . . . refusing to touch it , to digest it naturally , but digests it ideally , consumes what it does not consume and vice versa. " 12 The divine economy is an economy of consumption like the material economy it seeks to transcend . The Critique of Judgement attempts to exclude the sensual as " positively subversive of the judgement of taste ... it is only where taste is still weak and untrained that , like aliens , they are admitted as a favor , and only on terms that they do not violate that beautiful form . " 1 ' Derrida @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional possibility of pure form is precisely its violation by a subversive alien ; a foreign body that already inhabits the interior and can not be expelled without destroying its host ; an alien that can only be repressed . This constitutional violation of ideal form by the body in aesthetics is the constitutional violation of presence by representation , speech by spacing . Derrida 's work is full of such gestures , which locate the aliens within that have been consumed to produce the effect of pres-12 ! ) ' I'tI ' Iasu nl I ) r I Ii ( once , arguing that , as he states when reading Hegel , " the act of consumption . . . is not the negative of presence . " 14 What makes his reading of aesthetics so pivotal in this extended series of readings is that in the case of aesthetics , the alien that is secretly consumed is itself a certain kind of consumption . What is being ostensibly excluded by Kant 's text , and therefore covertly consumed by it , is consumption itself . In aesthetics , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this doubling involves the architecture of the house . When Derrida 's " Ja , ou le faux-bond " refers to " exclusion enclosing what it wants to neutralize or cast out , " 15 he is speaking of the production of an enclosure , the sense of an interior , a space . But what is unique about this space , and crucial to the question of deconstruction and architecture being raised here , is that it is a domestic space that attempts to domesticate space . On the one hand , the space is domestic inasmuch as the very form of domestication is that of an exclusion that covertly includes . When another of his essays refers to that which is " excluded or mastered ? that is to say domesticated ? by philosophy , " 16 Derrida is tacitly describing the production of a particular domestic space , the house of the philosophical tradition . On the other hand , what philosophy excludes from that house , the designated " outside " that is actually repressed on the inside of the domestic space , is space itself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that which divides an inside from an outside . What is excluded is the material building that supposedly produces an unquestionable sense of interior and , as such , is repeatedly pointed to in order to legitimize philosophical practice . What is excluded from the inside of philosophy is the material production of an inside that it employs to guarantee the very idea of interior , including its own . Philosophy is only able to organize itself around the idea of interior by excluding its paradigm of that idea in order to repress certain effects of that paradigm , effects that are threatening inasmuch as they are structural , which is to say , internal . The house of philosophy is produced as such by repressing something about houses . What is repressed is not simply something about the material reality of houses that must be hidden to cleanse the immaterial Throwing Up Arc ? hitec'uu ? c discourse , but something in the representational system of that discourse that makes the idea of house possible in the first place , something that must be hidden precisely because , among other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and material . To identify this repression does not involve looking for some architectural reality the traditional discourse overlooks , but looking more closely at the architecture built into that discourse , the architecture that allows the discourse to look in the first place . Indeed , what is at stake here is the tradition 's representation , which is to say construction , of the house as something that precedes representation , first in the sense of being some kind of object standing in the world that can be represented and is independent of its representations , and second and more crucially , in the sense that this object is not in itself a mechanism of representation , that it is so detached from representation that it can act as the very figure of presence . The question here becomes : what disruptions of the house are ostensibly excluded , while being systematically repressed within the discourse , in order to sustain this generic image of the house as that which simply and unproblematically excludes through the institution of a spatial division like a wall ? This is an even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because the house can never simply be repressed inasmuch as it is repression that makes possible the image of the house and , equally , the idea of repression is unthinkable " outside " that of the house . It has to be recalled that Freud often employs the figure of the house , its rooms , and the doorways between them to describe the mechanism of repression . Likewise , he employs the figure of digestion . For the tradition to constitute itself as a house by repressing a certain part of the house must involve secretly digesting that disturbing part , secreting it inside , secreting it to produce the very sense of inside . The tradition consumes the threatening aspect of the house and conceals that consumption , or , rather , conceals the indigestion that it produces . What the tradition represses , in order to at once represent itself as a house and represent the house as unmediated presence , is its own indigestion . In the end , metaphysics is the suppression of the indigestion of the house , the indigestion 13I The Irnlil ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repressed in order that any house can appear as such ; the indigestion that makes the house possible ; literally , the internal structure of the house , its always veiled constitution . A house , then , is no more than the repression of a constitutional indigestion . There is no house without either indigestion or its concealment . The line drawn by a house is not that between what appears as an inside and what appears as an outside , but the less clearly defined and much more convoluted one between the visible and the invisible . The security of a house is not its capacity to enclose or exclude , but its capacity to conceal . The Indigestion of the House To understand how indigestion and the house are bound together , it is necessary to see how architecture , and the house in particular , are written into aesthetics and its argument about consumption rather than simply being subjected to it . The argument is put in place by architecture before it is used to put architecture in its place . In fact , as we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Judgement , the one that establishes the sense of aesthetic disinterest , is architectural . The book begins by distinguishing a rustic hut from a palace , building from architecture . The disinterested eye is opposed to the hungry stomach by splitting building and architecture : If any one asks me whether I consider that the palace I see before me is beautiful , I may , perhaps , reply that I do not care for things of that sort that are merely made to be gaped at . Or I may reply in the same strain as that Iroquois sachem who said that nothing in Paris pleased him better than the eating-houses . I may even go a step further and inveigh with the vigor of a Rousseau against the vanity of the great who spend the sweat of the people on such superfluous things . Or , in time , I may quite easily persuade myself that if I found myself on an uninhabited island , without hope of ever again coming among men , and could conjure such a palace into existence by a mere wish , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as I had a hut there that was comfortable for me . All this may be admitted and approved ; only it is not the point now at issue . ' The degeneration of taste into consumption is the degeneration from the house detached from consumption ( the palace ) to the house of consumption ( the eating-house ) . Kant contrasts the utilitarian concern with bodily consumption of the primitive with the aesthetic disinterest of the cultivated : " taste that requires an added element of charm and emotion for its delight . . . has not yet emerged out from barbarism. " 18 To become cultivated is to " raise ourselves above the level of the senses , " ' 9 to move from the bodily to the ideal , from gratification to pleasure , from the unadorned utilitarian rustic hut to the ornamented house that is superfluous to utility , the house of the aristocracy : the palace . The desire to transcend the body by adorning it begins with the social acquisition of language : " with no one to take into account but himself a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself or his hut . " 20 The Critique of Judgement privileges the very thing that Rousseau condemns : fine art based on the transcendence of bodily function that is only available to the aristocracy . For Rousseau , architecture is a corruption of the purity , the innocence of building . The primitive hut , the basic house that does no more than define an interior space , occupies the privileged place between nature and its substitution with language , a substitution first required with the weaning of the child . Language originates as a substitute for mother 's milk , the voice of mother nature , and so is itself a form of speech , a form of expression organized by a " social contract " still tied in to the order of nature . But with the rise of luxury came what A Discourse on the Origin of Inequality describes as " the easiness of exciting and gratifying our sensual appetites , the too exquisite foods of the wealthy which overheat and fill them with indigestion , " upsetting " the good constitution of the savages . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art through the adornment of the naked body of the primitive and " his " hut with representations detached from the purity of nature and , therefore , in the words of A Discourse on the Moral Effects of the Arts and Sciences , a form of perversion , a " vice " : It is beneath the rustic clothes of a farmer and not beneath the gilt of a courtier that strength and vigor of the body will be found . Ornamentation is no less foreign to virtue , which is the strength and vigor of the soul . The good man is the athlete who likes to compete in the nude . Thc Indigestion of Ike I Iotm ? He disdains all those vile ornaments which would hamper the use of his strength , most of which were invented only to hide some deformity . " This degeneration from expression to representation , from the living voice of nature to the dead body of a sign , is also for Rousseau a degeneration from building to architecture , from the unadorned rustic hut to the ornamented temple that conceals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degeneracy , and vice has never been carried so far as it was seen , to speak figuratively , supported by marble columns and engraved on Corinthian capitals . " 2s For Rousseau , the undecorated house precedes indigestion . But again we are bound to ask , what exactly is it " to speak figuratively " here ? The Social Contract attempts to remove the excesses of fine art by restoring a contract , a restoration that itself turns out to be a building project : " Before putting up a large building , the architect surveys and sounds the site to see if it will bear the weight . " 24 Rousseau appeals to this architectural image again in A Discourse on the Origin of Inequality in order to argue that the institution of the social contract turns out to be grounded in nature : " all human institutions seem at first glance to be founded merely on banks of shifting sand . It is only by taking a closer look , and removing the dust and sand that surround the edifice , that we perceive the immovable basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its foundations . " 25 Kantian aesthetics , on the other hand , is governed by the same architectonic figure but attempts to restore a divine contract by cultivating fine art based on excess . Whereas Rousseau attempts to reject ornament , Kant attempts to tame it . Nevertheless , Kant 's privileging of fine art and Rousseau 's condemnation of it veils a fundamental complicity between them . Kant 's Anthropology from a Pragmatic Point of View significantly explains the standard use of the " organic " word " taste " ( which usually refers to the sensuous surface of " the inside of the mouth " ) for the " ideal " power of aesthetic judgment by arguing that the host 's selection of a variety of food at a dinner party is the model.26 His early lecture " On Philosopher 's Medicine of the Body " not only addresses the dinner party when discussing the 134 Throwing Up Architecture relationship between thinking and eating , but raises the question of what it is for a cerebral philosopher like him to address such a bodily scene.27 In his Metaphysics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overeating as an immoral " vice . " In these terms , his The Critique of Judgement remains bound to Rousseau 's account of the primitive . It employs the metaphor of taste precisely for its links with the mother 's breast ? such that it is the mother 's voice that is listened to when appreciating fine art . Equally , Rousseau 's account maintains the same aesthetic as Kant , in which color is subordinated to design as " purely a pleasure of the sense . " 29 Both argue that expression has been , as the Critique puts it , " violated and rendered impure " 30 by the sensuality of representation , and both attempt to restore its purity , its innocence and primacy . In so doing , they sustain the tradition of metaphysics that attempts to domesticate representation . Both are committed to a regime of domestication ? committed , that is , to maintain the house . The strategic operation of this domestication in the maintenance of metaphysics is very literal in Rousseau . His explicit rejection of slavery , for example , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " which implicitly establishes the necessity of the domestication of man 's other as slave . The house is the mechanism of this mastery . In the Discourse on the Origin of Inequality , men and women ceased to be equal with the origin of the house : " The sexes , whose manner of life had been hitherto the same , began now to adopt different ways of living . The women became more sedentary , and accustomed themselves to mind the hut and their children , while the men went abroad in search of their common subsistence . " 3 ' Language is acquired by the men outside the hut rather than within it , as can be seen in Essay on the Origin of Languages : " genuine languages are not at all of domestic origin . They can be established only under a more general , more durable agreement . The American savages hardly speak at all except outside their homes . Each keeps silent in his hut . " 32 The expressions sustained by this fraternal contract are violated by representations when the woman assumes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M The Indigestion of the IIouse ? The same oppressive sense can be found throughout Kant 's writing , but is most explicit in his " political " texts , as can be seen when The Philosophy of Law speaks of the " equality " of the partners in a marriage contract only to immediately argue that the husband 's " supremacy " over the wife does not violate this equality because of the " natural superiority of the husband compared with the wife . " 33 The same duplicity is evident in his insistence on the political equality of all subjects in the essay " On the Common Saying : This May be True in Theory , But it Does Not Apply in Practice , " " which immediately goes on to conclude that the only thing that disqualifies any person from citizenship is being a woman , a person who has no property precisely because she is property.34 This exclusion from the public domain presupposes both physical and legal confinement to the domestic as well as the confinement of authority to the domestic , as can be seen when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife 's " legal voicelessnes with regard to public transactions makes her all the more powerful in domestic matters . " 35 Kant repeatedly associates the figure of the woman with the superficiality of material ornament , the seductions of representation that distract reason , while the man is associated with the supposed penetration of reason to the infinite depth of immaterial ideas . For both Kant and Rousseau , woman is the figure of the dispossession of the authority of immediate expression by the mediations of representation . She is a double figure : the paradigm of nature when domesticated in the house and the paradigm of the alienation from nature when outside the house , untamed . In Of Grammatology , Derrida looks at the way in which , for Rousseau , women 's power is the " paradigm of violence and political anomaly " hence the necessity of " containing them within domestic government " such that " woman takes her place , remains in her place . " 36 This domestic order is understood as the basis of all political order . The threat the woman poses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linked " to the subversive spacings of writing . Its not that writing is like a woman who must be domesticated . Rather , the woman has to be domesticated inasThrowing much as she is like writing . In the face of this threat , which is that of a supplement , an ornament that is somehow necessary to the system and yet violates it , Rousseau attempts to " arrest it , domesticate it , tame it . " 37 The logic of ornament installed by the architectural figure of the edifice is inseparable from that of the house . Femininity is not simply one example of the supplements that must be placed under house arrest . All supplements are constructed as feminine . The feminine being that which is domesticated , produced as such in the moment of domestication , or , rather , produced in the ongoing but always frustrated attempt to domesticate . Metaphysics is a determination of place that attempts to domesticate the other , as it domesticates woman , rendering whatever it domesticates " feminine " by placing it . The feminine is that which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the master of the house , the patriarchal authority that makes the other a slave within the house , a domestic servant or servant of domesticity . Whatever threatens the authority of the " man of the house " threatens metaphysics . Again , this is not so much a matter of placing the other in a particular space as it is of placing it in the subordinate realm of material space . The institution of space that Derrida obliquely interrogates is , from the beginning , organized around a certain thinking about ? which is to say , construction of ? the space of the house . And if the question of architecture is most explicit in deconstructive discourse when it is addressing politics , the politics of architecture become more explicit when the edifice is figured as a house . Not because of the literal politics of the house ? the oppression of women , for example , as a political reality ( something both more " political " and more " real " than other subjects of deconstructive discourse ) ? but because the very sense of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to mention the sense of reality ) comes from a certain representation of the house . The law is always , in the end , the law of the house . The question of politics is always one of domestic economy . As Derrida argues in " Interpretations at War " : " oikonomia here names the law of the family oikos as the law , period . " 38 Whether it addresses politics or not , philosophy can never be apolitical . It 137 The Indigestion of the Ilous ( ( ? can never be detached from the violent law of the domestic . On the contrary , it is at once its manifestation and its defense , as alluded to in a passage from Glas that identifies the domestic regime in and of Hegel 's philosophy : Economy : the law of the family , of the family home , of possession . The economic act makes familiar , proper , one 's own , intimate , private . The sense of property , of propriety , in general is collected in the oikeios ... . And so political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . . . The eidos , the general form of philosophy , is properly familial and produces itself as oikos : home , habitation , apartment , room , residence , temple , tomb tombeau , hive , assets avoir , family , race , and so on . If a common sense is given therein , it is the guarding of the proper , of property , propriety , of one 's own ... 39 This identity between the law of the house and the tradition of metaphysics is one of the most insistent themes throughout Derrida 's work . But the sense that philosophy is the defense of the politics of the house is not , as it were , forced onto the tradition . It is already written into it , often explicitly , as when Rousseau 's A Discourse on Political Economy identifies the domesticity of politics : " The word Economy , or Oeconomy , is derived from oikos , house , and nomos , law , and meant originally only the wise and legitimate government of the house for the common good of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the house is not written into the texts of the tradition as one theme among others . Whether explicit or not , it operates as their organizational principle . The sense of security associated with the material space of the house that philosophy draws on can never be detached from the violent subordination of the feminine , where the feminine is understood as spacing . To subordinate is to suppress spacing in favor of space , or , more precisely , to produce the effect of space by suppressing spacing . The house is not simply the site of a particular subordination , a particular kind of violence . It Domination is domestication . Yet the house does not simply precede what it domesticates . The house is itself an effect of suppression . The classical figure of the feminine is that which lacks its own secure boundaries , 13M Throwing Up Archiie tine producing insecurity by disrupting boundaries , and which therefore must be housed by masculine force that is no more than the ability to maintain rigid limits or , more precisely , the effect of such limits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only violently enforced by a range of disciplinary structures ( legal , philosophical , economic , aesthetic , technical , social , and so on ) , but is itself already a form of violence . Masculinity is not only erection but also enclosure , the logic of the house is as phallocentric as that of the tower . The tower , in the end , is a house . Kant discloses this implicit agenda that organizes the architectural figure in philosophy at the very end of the Critique of Pure Reason when he redesigns the edifice it attempts to construct as a house : " although we had contemplated building a tower which should reach the heavens , the supply of materials suffices only for a dwelling house . . . building a secure home for ourselves . " 4 ' This house is not simply a substitute that will be abandoned when the tower of metaphysics is finally completed . Rather , the house is what is always installed behind the more visible dream of philosophy . Architecture is bound to metaphysics because it represents the capacity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solidity of its foundations . Rather , it is the apparent solidity of its walls , the security of its enclosure , its definition of space , its production of place . Deconstructive discourse threatens the tradition of metaphysics by disturbing the ability of its constructions to put things in their place . It produces this displacement by identifying the series of undecidable figures that resist domestication inasmuch as they can be neither housed nor evicted . In so doing , it necessarily disturbs architecture . The Disgusting Truth As the house is the privileged site of the ideal speech of logos dreamed of by philosophy , to locate that which resists domestication is to locate that which resists the mastery of the mouth , eluding the relentless economy of consumption . Derrida 's " Economimesis " interrogates the limits of both the overt bodily economy and the covert ideal economy of metaphysics by look-1 ; t ! 1 ' I lu ? Disgusting ' li utli ing closely into the mouth they share for that which resists consumption because it is neither bodily nor ideal and therefore can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which " can not be eaten either sensibly or ideally and which .. . by never letting itself be swallowed must therefore cause itself to be vomited. " 42 He notes that The Critique of Judgement explicitly identifies this inconsumable other that removes the distinction between representation and presentation and resists the aesthetic eye as the " disgusting " : One kind of ugliness alone is incapable of being represented conformably to nature without destroying all aesthetic delight , and consequently artistic beauty , namely , that which excites disgust . For , as in this strange sensation , which depends purely on the imagination , the object is represented as insisting , as it were , upon our enjoying it , while we still set our face against it , the artificial representation of the object is no longer distinguishable from the nature of the object itself in our sensation , and so it can not possibly be regarded as beautiful.43 Aesthetics is defined by its exclusion of the disgusting . It is a disgust for that sensuality which imposes enjoyment , enslaving the observer by seducing it and thereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by metaphysics , a mastery that can never be separated from the mastery of the house . What is truely disgusting is not simply what is seen but the disruption of vision it produces . At one point in his Anthropology from a Pragmatic Point of View , Kant symptomatically associates vomit with the extent to which certain visual perceptions can remove the distinction between mental and physical : The illusion caused by the strength of our imagination often goes so far that we think we see and feel outside us what is only in our mind .. . The sight of others eating loathsome things ( as when the Tunguse rhythmically suck out and swallow the mucus from their children 's noses ) moves the spectator to vomit , just as if he himself were forced to eat it.44 Vomit marks the limit of vision , its inability to be aesthetically detached . As Kant argues in his Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and the Sublime : " Nothing is so much set against the beautiful as disgust . " 45 Symptomatically , he says so in defining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beauty " of the                     