@@748750

is brother Patrick , and his sisters , have taken a high position as an artist . In the following Memoir we have only been able to introduce a few specimens of his drawings ; but " The Fairies , " " The Antiquary , " and others , will give the reader a good idea of Mr. Nasmyth 's artistic ability . Since his retirement from business life , at the age of forty-eight , Mr. Nasmyth 's principal pursuit has been Astronomy . His Monograph on " The Moon , " published in 1874 , exhibits his ardent and philosophic love for science in one of its sublimest aspects . His splendid astronomical instruments , for the most part made entirely by his own hands , have enabled him to detect the " willow leaf-shaped " objects which form the structural element of the Sun 's luminous surface . The discovery was shortly after verified by Sir John Herschel and other astronomers , and is now a received fact in astronomical science . A Chronological List of some of Mr. Nasmyth 's contrivances and inventions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows , so far , what he has been enabled to accomplish during his mechanical career . These begin at a very early age , and were continued for about thirty years of a busy and active life . Very few of them were patented ; many of them , though widely adopted , are unacknowledged as his invention . They , nevertheless , did much to advance the mechanical arts , and still continue to do excellent service in the engineering world . The chapter relating to the origin of the Cuneiform Character , and of the Pyramid or Sun-worship in its relation to Egyptian Architecture , is placed at the end , so as not to interrupt the personal narrative . That chapter , it is believed , will be found very interesting , illustrated , as it is , by Mr. Nasmyth 's drawings . S.S. LONDON , October 1885 . CONTENTS Preface CHAPTER 1 My Ancestry Sentiment of Ancestry Origin of the name of Naesmyth Naesmyth of Posso Naesmyth of Netherton Battle of Bothwell Brig Estate confiscated Elspeth Naesmyth Michael Naesmyth builder and architect Fort at Inversnaid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ son New Edinburgh Grandmother Naesmyth Uncle Michael CHAPTER 2 Alexander Nasmyth Born 1758  --  Grassmarket Edinburgh  --  Education The Bibler 's Seat The brothers Erskine Apprenticed to a coachbuilder The Trustees ' Academy Huguenot artisans Alexander Runciman Copy of " The Laocoon " Assistant to Allan Ramsay Faculty of resourcefulness Begins as portrait painter Friendship with Miller of Dalswinton Miller and the first steamboat Visit to Italy Marriage to Barbara Foulis Burns the poet Edinburgh clubs Landscape beauty Abandons portrait for landscape painting David Roberts , R.A. Dean Bridge St. Bernard 's Well Nelson 's Monument Bow-and-string bridges Sunday rivet CHAPTER 3 An Artist 's Family Sir James Hall Geology of Edinburgh Friends of the family Henry Raeburn Evenings at home Society of artists " Caller Aon " Management of the household The family Education of six sisters The Nasmyth classes Pencil drawing Excursions round Edinburgh Graphic memoranda Patrick Nasmyth , sketch of his life Removes to London Visit to Hampshire Original prices of his works His friends His death CHAPTER 4 My Early Years Born 1808 Mary Peterkin The brilliant red poppies Left-handed Patrick 's birthday Vocal performance A wonderful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 42d into Edinburgh Bleaching " claes " on the Calton The Greenside workshops The chimes of St. Giles ' The Edinburgh Market The caddies The fishwives The " floore " Traditional fondness for cats A Nasmyth prayer CHAPTER 5 My School-days My first schoolmaster " Preter pluperfect tense " The " penny pig " Country picnics Pupil at the High School Dislike of Latin Love of old buildings Their masonry Sir Walter Scott " The Heart of Midlothian " John Linnell The collecting period James Watt My father 's workshop Make peeries , cannon , and " steels " School friendships Paterson 's ironfoundry His foremen Johnie Syme Tom Smith and chemical experiments Kid gloves and technical knowledge CHAPTER 6 Mechanical Beginnings Study arithmetic and geometry Practise art of drawing Its important uses Make tools and blowpipe Walks round Edinburgh Volcanic origin of the neighbourhood George the Fourth 's visit The Radical Road Destructive fires Journey to Stirling The Devon Ironworks Robert Bald Carron Ironworks Coats of mail found at Bannockburn Models of condensing steam-engine Professor Leslie Edinburgh School of Arts Attend University classes Brass-casting in the bedroom George Douglass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a road steam-carriage Desire to enter Maudslay 's factory CHAPTER 7 Henry Maudslay , London Voyage to London with specimens of workmanship First walk through London Visit to Henry Maudslay The interview Exhibit my specimens Taken on as assistant The private workshop Maudslay 's constructive excellence His maxims Uniformity of screws Meeting with Henry Brougham David Wilkie Visit to the Admiralty Museum The Block machinery The Royal Mint Steam yacht trip to Richmond Lodgings taken " A clean crossing " CHAPTER 8 Maudslay 's Private Assistant Enter Maudslay 's service Rudimentary screw generator The guide screw Interview with Faraday Rate of wages Economical living My cooking stove Make model of marine steam-engine My collar-nut cutting machine Maudslay 's elements of high-class workmanship Flat filing Standard planes Maudslay 's " Lord Chancellor " Maudslay 's Visitors General Bentham , Barton , Donkin and Chantrey The Cundell brothers Walks round London Norman architecture CHAPTER 9 Holiday in the Manufacturing Districts Coaching trip to Liverpool Coventry English scenery ' The Rocket ' The two Stephensons Opening of the railway William Fawcett Birkenhead Walk back to London Patricroft Manchester Edward Tootal Sharp , Roberts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wren 's Nest Hill Birmingham Boulton and Watt William Murdoch John Drain Kenilworth  --  Warwick  --  Oxford  --  Windsor  --  London CHAPTER 10 Begin Business at Manchester Stamping machine improved Astronomical instruments A reflecting telescope proposed Death of Maudslay Joshua Field ' Talking books ' Leave Maudslay and Field Take temporary workshop in Edinburgh Archie Torry Construct a rotary steam-engine Prepare a stock of machine tools Visit to Liverpool John Cragg Visit to Manchester John Kennedy Grant Brothers Take a workshop Tools removed to Manchester A prosperous business begun Story of the brothers Grant Trip to Elgin and Castle Grant The brothers Cowper The printing machine Edward Cowper CHAPTER 11 Bridgewater Foundry  --  Partnership Demand for skilled labour Machine tools in request My flat overloaded A crash among the decanters The land at Patricroft Lease from Squire Trafford Bridgewater Foundary begun Trip to Londonderry The Giant 's Causeway Cottage at Barton The Bridgewater canal Lord Francis Egerton Safety foundry ladle Holbrook Gaskell taken as partner His eventual retirement CHAPTER 12 Free Trade in Ability  --  The Strike  --  Death of my Father Hugo de Lupus The Peter Stubb 's files Worsley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lieutenants , Archie Torry James Hutton John Clarke Thomas Crewdson Trades ' Union interference A strike ordered Workman advertised for A reinforcement of Scotch mechanics The strike scotched Millwrights and engineers Indenture-bound apprentices Visits of my father Enthusiastic reception His last work His death Testimony of Sir David Wilkie CHAPTER 13 My Marriage  --  The Steam Hammer Preparations for a home Influence of chance occurrences Visit to Mr. Hartop 's near Barnsley Important interview Eventual marriage Great Western Railway locomotives Mr. Humphries and ' Great Western ' steamship Forging of paddle-shaft Want of range of existing hammers The first steam hammer sketched Its arrangement The paddle shaft abandoned My sketch copied and adopted My visit to Creuzot Find steam hammer in operation A patent taken out First steam hammer made in England Its general adoption Patent secured for United States CHAPTER 14 Travels in France and Italy The French Minister of Marine at Paris Rouen  --  Bayeux  --  Cherbourg  --  Brest  --  Rochefort  --  Indret M. Rosine Architecture of Nismes Marseilles  --  Toulon  --  Voyage to Naples  --  Genoa  --  Pisa Bay of Naples The National Museum Visit to Vesuvius The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wine-shop at Rosina Return ride to Naples CHAPTER 15 Steam Hammer Pile-driver The Royal Dockyards Steam hammer for Devonport Scene at the first stroke My Lords of the Admiralty Steam hammer pile-driver required The new docks at Devonport The pile-driver delivered Its description Trail against the old method Its general adoption Happy thoughts Testing of chain cables and anchors Causes of failure Punctilliousness of officials at royal dockyards Egyptian workman employed Affiffi Lalli Letter from Faraday CHAPTER 16 Nuremberg  --  St. Petersburg  --  Dannemora . Visit to Nuremberg Albert Durer Adam Krafft Visit to St. Petersburg General Wilson General Greg Struve the astronomer Palaces and shops Ivy ornamentation The Emperor Nicholas a royal salute Francis Baird Work of Russian serfs The Izak Church Voyage to Stokholm Visit to Upsala The iron mines of Dannemora To Gottenburg by steamer Motala Trollhatten Falls Sweedish people Copenhagen Tycho Brahe ; Zeland and Holstein Holland , and return CHAPTER 17 More about Bridgewater Foundry  --  Woolwich Arsenal Increased demand for self-acting tools Promotions of lads The Trades ' Union again Strike against Platt Brothers Edward Tootal 's advice Friendliness between engineering firms Small high-pressure engines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arsenal Enlargement of workshops Improved machine tools The gun foundry and laboratories Orders for Spain and Russia Rope factory machinery Russian Officers Grand Duke Constantine Lord Ellesmere 's visitors Admiral Kornileff CHAPTER 18 Astronomical pursuits Hobbies at home Drawing Washington Irving Pursuit of astronomy Wonders of the heavens Construction of a new speculum William Lassell Warren de la Rue Home-made reflecting telescope A ghost at Patricroft Twenty-inch diameter speculum Drawings of the moon 's surface Structure of the moon Lunar craters Pico Wrinkles of age Extinct craters Landscape scenery of the moon Meeting of British Association at Edinburgh The Bass Rock Professor Owen Robert Chambers The grooved rocks Hugh Miller and boulder clay Lecture on the moon Visit the Duke of Argyll Basaltic formation at Mull The Giant 's Causeway The great exhibition Steam hammer engine Prize medals Interview with the Queen and Prince Consort Lord Cockburn Visit to Bonally D. O. Hill CHAPTER 19 More about Astronomy Sir David Brewster Edward Cowper 's lecture Cause of the sun 's light Lord Murray Sir T. Mitchell The Milky Way Countless suns Infusoria in Bridgewater Canal Rotary movements of heavenly bodies Geological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Enfield Generosity of United States Government The Enfield Rifle CHAPTER 20 Retirement from Business Letter from David Roberts , R. A. Puddling iron by steam The process tried Sir Henry Bessemer 's invention Discussion at Cheltenham Bessemer 's account Prepare to retire from business The Countess of Ellesmere The " Cottage in Kent " The " antibilious stock " Hammerfield , Penshurst Planting and gardening The Crystal Palace Music Tools and telescopes The greenhouse CHAPTER 21 Active leisure Astronomy Lecture on the Moon Edinburgh Old friends Visit to the Continent  --  Paris , Chartres , Nismes , Chamounix Art of photography Sir John Herschel Spots on the sun 's surface E.J. Stone De la Rue Visit from Sir John Herschel Cracking glass globe A million spots and letters Geological diagram Father Secchi at Rome Lord Lyndhurst Visit to Herschel His last letter Publication of The Moon Philip H. Calderon Cardinal Manning Miss Herschel William Lassell Windmill grinding of speculum The dial of life End of recollections List of Inventions and Contrivances Articles on the Sun-Ray origin of the Pyramids and Cuneiform Character Image Edinburgh Castle , From the Vennel AUTOBIOGRAPHY . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are born . We represent the hereditary influences of our race , and our ancestors virtually live in us . The sentiment of ancestry seems to be inherent in human nature , especially in the more civilised races . At all events , we can not help having a due regard for the history of our forefathers . Our curiosity is stimulated by their immediate or indirect influence upon ourselves . It may be a generous enthusiasm , or , as some might say , a harmless vanity , to take pride in the honour of their name . The gifts of nature , however , are more valuable than those of fortune ; and no line of ancestry , however honourable , can absolve us from the duty of diligent application and perseverance , or from the practice of the virtues of self-control and self-help . Sir Bernard Burke , in his Peerage and Baronetage Ed 1879 Pp 885-6 , gives a faithful account of the ancestors from whom I am lineally descended . " The family of Naesymth , he says , " is one of remote antiquity in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century . " They fought in the wars of Bruce and Baliol , which ended in the independence of Scotland . The following is the family legend of the origin of the name of Naesymth :  --  In the troublous times which prevailed in Scotland before the union of the Crowns , the feuds between the King and the Barons were almost constant . In the reign of James III . the House of Douglas was the most prominent and ambitious . The Earl not only resisted his liege lord , but entered into a combination with the King of England , from whom he received a pension . He was declared a rebel , and his estates were confiscated . He determined to resist the royal power , and crossed the Border with his followers . He was met by the Earl of Angus , the Maxwells , the Johnstons , and the Scotts . In one of the engagements which ensued the Douglases appeared to have gained the day , when an ancestor of the Naesmyths , who fought under the royal standard , took refuge in the smithy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , disguised him as a hammerman , with a leather apron in front , and asked him to lend a hand at his work . While thus engaged a party of the Douglas partisans entered the smithy . They looked with suspicion on the disguised hammerman , who , in his agitation , struck a false blow with the sledge hammer , which broke the shaft in two . Upon this , one of the pursuers rushed at him , calling out , " Ye 're nae smyth ! " The stalwart hammerman turned upon his assailant , and , wrenching a dagger from him , speedily overpowered him . The smith himself , armed with a big hammer , effectually aided in overpowering and driving out the Douglas men . A party of the royal forces made their appearance , when Naesmyth rallied them , led them against the rebels , and converted what had been a temporary defeat into a victory . A grant of lands was bestowed upon him for his service . His armorial bearings consisted of a hand dexter with a dagger , between two broken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The motto was , Non arte sect marte , " Not by art but by war " In my time I have reversed the motto ( Non marte sed arte ) ; and instead of the broken hammer-shafts , I have adopted , not as my " arms " but as a device , the most potent form of mechanical art  --  the Steam Hammer . Image Origin of the Name . By James Nasmyth . Sir Michael Naesmyth , Chamberlain of the Archbishop of St. Andrews , obtained the lands of Posso and Glenarth in 1544 , by right of his wife , Elizabeth , daughter and heiress of John Baird of Posso . The Bairds have ever been a loyal and gallant family . Sir Gilbert , father of John Baird , fell at Flodden in 1513 , in defence of his king . The royal eyrie of Posso Crag is on the family estate ; and the Lure worn by Queen Mary , and presented by her son James VI . to James Naesmyth , the Royal Falconer , is still preserved as a family heirloom . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mary , Sir Michael Naesmyth espoused the cause of the unfortunate Queen . He fought under her banner at Langside in 1568 . He was banished , and his estates were seized by the Regent Moray . But after the restoration of peace , the Naesmyths regained their property . Sir Michael died at an advanced age . He had many sons . The eldest , James , married Joana , daughter of William Veitch or Le Veitch of Dawick . By this marriage the lands of Dawick came into the family . He predeceased his father , and was succeeded by his son James , the Royal Falconer above referred to . Sir Michael 's second son , John , was chief chirurgeon to James VI . of Scotland , afterwards James I. of England , and to Henry , Prince of Wales . He died in London in 1613 , and in his testament he leaves " his herb to his young master , the Prince 's grace . " Charles I. , in his instructions to the President of the Court of Session , enjoins " that you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so often recommended by our late dear father and us . " Two of Sir Michael 's other sons were killed at Edinburgh in 1588 , in a deadly feud between the Scotts and the Naesmyths . In those days a sort of Corsican vendetta was carried on between families from one generation to another . Sir Michael Naesmyth , son of the Royal Falconer , succeeded to the property . His eldest son James was appointed to serve in Claverhouse 's troop of horse in 1684 . Among the other notable members of the family was James Naesmyth , a very clever lawyer . He was supposed to be so deep that he was generally known as the " Deil o ' Dawyk " . His eldest son was long a member of Parliament for the county of Peebles ; he was , besides , a famous botanist , having studied under Linnaeus , Among the inter-marriages of the family were those with the Bruces of Lethen , the Stewarts of Traquhair , the Murrays of Stanhope , the Pringles of Clifton , the Murrays of Philiphaugh , the Keiths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Andersons of St. Germains , the Marjoribanks of Lees , and others . In the fourteenth century a branch of the Naesmyths of Posso settled at Netherton , near Hamilton . They bought an estate and built a residence . The lands adjoined part of the Duke of Hamilton 's estate , and the house was not far from the palace . There the Naesmyths remained until the reign of Charles II . The King , or his advisers , determined to introduce Episcopacy , or , as some thought , Roman Catholicism , into the country , and to enforce it at the point of the sword . The Naesmyths had always been loyal until now . But to be cleft by sword and pricked by spear into a religion which they disbelieved , was utterly hateful to the Netherton Naesmyths . Being Presbyterians , they held to their own faith . They were prevented from using their churches , * footnote ... In the reign of James II . of England and James VII . of Scotland a law was enacted , " that whoever should preach in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a preacher or as a hearer , a conventicle in the open air , should be punished with death and confiscation of property . " ... and they accordingly met on the moors , or in unfrequented places for worship . The dissenting Presbyterians assumed the name of Covenanters . Hamilton was almost the centre of the movement . The Covenanters met , and the King 's forces were ordered to disperse them . Hence the internecine war that followed . There were Naesmyths on both sides  - -  Naesmyths for the King , and Naesmyths for the Covenant . In an early engagement at Drumclog , the Covenanters were victorious . They beat back Claverhouse and his dragoons . A general rising took place in the West Country . About 6000 men assembled at Hamilton , mostly raw and undisciplined countrymen . The King 's forces assembled to meet them ,  --  10,000 well-disciplined troops , with a complete train of field artillery . What chance had the Covenanters against such a force ? Nevertheless , they met at Bothwell Bridge , a few miles west of Hamilton . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account of a Covenanting Officer in the Appendix to the Scots Worthies . See also Sir Waiter Scott 's Old Mortality , where the battle of Bothwell Brig is described . ... The Covenanters , notwithstanding their inferior force , resisted the cannonade and musketry of the enemy with great courage . They defended the bridge until their ammunition failed . When the English Guards and the artillery crossed the bridge , the battle was lost . The Covenanters gave way , and fled in all directions ; Claverhouse , burning with revenge for his defeat at Drumclog , made a terrible slaughter of the unresisting fugitives . One of my ancestors brought from the battlefield the remnant of the standard ; a formidable musquet  --  " Gun Bothwell " we afterwards called it ; an Andrea Ferrara ; and a powder-horn . I still preserve these remnants of the civil war . My ancestor was condemned to death in his absence , and his property at Netherton was confiscated . What became of him during the remainder of Charles II . ' s reign , and the reign of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know . He was probably , like many others , wandering about from place to place , hiding " in wildernesses or caves , destitute , afflicted , and tormented . " The arrival of William III . restored religious liberty to the country , and Scotland was again left in comparative peace . My ancestor took refuge in Edinburgh , but he never recovered his property at Netherton . The Duke of Hamilton , one of the trimmers of the time , had long coveted the possession of the lands , as Ahab had coveted Naboth 's vineyard . He took advantage of the conscription of the men engaged in the Bothwell Brig conflict , and had the lands forfeited in his favour . I remember my father telling me that , on one occasion when he visited the Duke of Hamilton in reference to some improvement of the grounds adjoining the palace , he pointed out to the Duke the ruined remains of the old residence of the Naesmyths . As the first French Revolution was then in full progress , when ideas of society and property seemed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Well , well , Naesmyth , there 's no saying but what , some of these days , your ancestors ' lands may come into your possession again ! " Before I quit the persecutions of " the good old times , " I must refer to the burning of witches . One of my ancient kinswomen , Elspeth Naesmyth , who lived at Hamilton , was denounced as a witch . The chief evidence brought against her was that she kept four black cats , and read her Bible with two pairs of spectacles ! a practice which shows that she possessed the spirit of an experimental philosopher . In doing this she adopted a mode of supplementing the power of spectacles in restoring the receding power of the eyes . She was in all respects scientifically correct . She increased the magnifying power of the glasses ; a practice which is preferable to using single glasses of the same power , and which I myself often follow . Notwithstanding this improved method of reading her Bible , and her four black cats , she was condemned to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scotland to the disgraceful superstition of witchcraft . The Naesmyths of Netherton having lost their ancestral property , had to begin the world again . They had to begin at the beginning . But they had plenty of pluck and energy . I go back to my great-great-grandfather , Michael Naesmyth , who was born in 1652 . He occupied a house in the Grassmarket , Edinburgh , which was afterwards rebuilt , in 1696 . His business was that of a builder and architect . His chief employment was in designing and erecting new mansions , principally for the landed gentry and nobility . Their old castellated houses or towers were found too dark and dreary for modern uses . The drawbridges were taken down , and the moats were filled up . Sometimes they built the new mansions as an addition to the old . But oftener they left the old castles to go to ruin ; or , what was worse , they made use of the stone and other materials of the old romantic buildings for the construction of their new residences . Michael Naesmyth acquired a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masonry was excellent , as well as his woodwork . The greater part of the latter was executed in his own workshops at the back of his house in the Grassmarket . His large yard was situated between the back of the house and the high wall that bounded the Greyfriars Churchyard , to the east of the flight of steps which forms the main approach to George Heriot 's Hospital . Image Michael Naesmyth 's House , Grassmarket.The lower building at the right hand corner of the engraving , with the three projecting gable ends The last work that Michael Naesmyth was engaged in cost him his life . He had contracted with the Government to build a fort at Inversnaid , at the northern end of Loch Lomond . It was intended to guard the Lowlands , and keep Rob Roy and his caterans within the Highland Border . A promise was given by the Government that during the progress of the work a suitable force of soldiers should be quartered close at hand to protect the builder and his workmen . Image Inversnaid Fort . After a drawing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger of undertaking such a hazardous work , Michael Naesmyth and his men encamped upon the spot , though without the protection of the Government force . Having erected a temporary residence for their accommodation , he proceeded with the building of the fort . The work was well advanced by the end of 1703 , although the Government had treated all Naesmyth 's appeals for protection with evasion or contempt . Winter set in with its usual force in those northern regions . One dark and snowy night , when Michael and his men had retired to rest , a loud knocking was heard at the door . " Who 's there ? " asked Michael . A man outside replied , " A benighted traveller overt aken by the storm " He proceeded to implore help , and begged for God 's sake that he might have shelter for the night . Naesmyth , in the full belief that the traveller 's tale was true , unbolted and unbarred the door , when in rushed Rob Roy and his desperate gang . The men , with the dirks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives . This was granted on condition that they should instantly depart , and take an oath that they should never venture within the Highland border again . Michael Naesmyth and his men had no alternative but to submit , and they at once left the bothy with such scanty clothing as the Macgregors would allow them to carry away . They were marched under an armed escort through the snowstorm to the Highland border , and were there left with the murderous threat that , if they ever returned to the fort , they would meet with certain death . Another attempt was made to build the fort at Inversnaid . But Rob Roy again surprised the small party of soldiers who were in charge . They were disarmed and sent about their business . Finally , the fort was rebuilt , and placed under the command of Captain ( afterwards General ) Wolfe . When peace fell upon the Highlands and Rob Roy 's country became the scene of picnics , the fort was abandoned and allowed to go to ruin . Poor Michael never recovered from the cold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The effects of this , together with the loss and distress of mind which he experienced from the Government 's refusal to pay for his work  --  notwithstanding their promise to protect him and his workmen from the Highland freebooters  --  so preyed upon his mind that he was never again able to devote himself to business . One evening , whilst sitting at his fireside with his grandchild on his knee , a death-like faintness came over him ; he set the child down carefully by the side of his chair , and then fell forward dead on his hearthstone . Thus ended the life of Michael Naesmyth in 1705 , at the age of fifty-three . He was buried by the side of his ancestors in the old family tomb in the Greyfriars Churchyard . Image The Naesmyth Tomb in Greyfriars Churchyard This old tomb , dated 1614 , though much defaced , is one of the most remarkable of the many which surround the walls of that ancient and memorable burying-place . Greyfriars Churchyard is one of the most interesting places in Edinburgh . The National Covenant was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1638 . The prisoners taken at the battle of Bothwell Brig were shut up there in 1679 , and , after enduring great privations , a portion of the survivors were sent off to Barbadoes . When I first saw the tombstone , an ash tree was growing out of the top of the main body of it , though that has since been removed . In growing , the roots had pushed out the centre stone , which has not been replaced . The tablet over it contains the arms of the family , the broken hammer-shafts , and the motto " Non arte sed marte . " There are the remains of a very impressive figure , apparently rising from her cerements . The body and extremities remain , but the head has been broken away . There is also a remarkable motto on the tablet above the tombstone  --  " Ars mihi vim contra Fortunce ; which I take to be , " Art is my strength in contending against Fortune , "  --  a motto which is appropriate to my ancestors as well as to myself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ son , my great-grandfather . He was twenty-seven years old at the time of his father 's death , and lived to the age of seventy-three . He was a man of much ability and of large experience . One of his great advantages in carrying on his business was the support of a staff of able and trustworthy foremen and workmen . The times were very different then from what they are now . Masters and men lived together in mutual harmony . There was a kind of loyal family attachment among them , which extended through many generations . Workmen had neither the desire nor the means to shift about from place to place . On the contrary , they settled down with their wives and families in houses of their own , close to the workshops of their employers . Work was found for them in the dull seasons when trade was slack , and in summer they sometimes removed to jobs at a distance from headquarters . Much of this feeling of attachment and loyalty between workmen and their employers has now expired . Men rapidly remove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The mutual feeling of goodwill and zealous attention to work seems to have passed away . My grandfather , Michael Naesmyth , succeeded to the business in 1751 . He more than maintained the reputation of his predecessors . The collection of first-class works on architecture which he possessed , such as the folio editions of Vitruvius and Palladio , which were at that time both rare and dear , showed the regard he had for impressing into his designs the best standards of taste . The buildings he designed and erected for the Scotch nobility and gentry were well arranged , carefully executed , and thoroughly substantial . He was also a large builder in Edinburgh . Amongst the houses he erected in the Old Town were the principal number of those in George Square . In one of these , No. 25 , Sir Walter Scott spent his boyhood and youth . They still exist , and exhibit the care which he took in the elegance and substantiality of his works . I remember my father pointing out to me the extreme care and attention with which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the mortar of the external joints of the stones , at close and regular distances , in order to protect the mortar from the adverse action of the weather . And to this day they give proof of their efficiency . The basalt protects the joints , and at the same time gives a neat and pleasing effect to what would otherwise have been merely the monotonous line of mason-work . A great change was about to take place in the residences of the principal people of Edinburgh . The cry was for more light and more air . The extension of the city to the south and west was not sufficient . There was a great plateau of ground on the north side of the city , beyond the North Loch . But it was very difficult to reach ; being alike steep on both sides of the Loch . At length , in 1767 , an Act was obtained to extend the royalty of the city over the northern fields , and powers were obtained to erect a bridge to connect them with the Old Town . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build dwellings on the northern side of the city . A premium was offered to the person who should build the first house ; and #20 was awarded to Mr. John Young on account of a mansion erected by him close to George Street . Exemption from burghal taxes was also granted to a gentleman who built the first house in Princes Street . My grandfather built the first house in the south-west corner of St. Andrew Square , for the occupation of David Hume the historian , as well as the two most important houses in the centre of the north side of the same square . One of these last was occupied by the venerable Dr. Hamilton , a very conspicuous character in Edinburgh . He continued to wear the cocked hat , the powdered pigtail , tights , and large shoe buckles , for about sixty years after this costume had become obsolete . All these houses are still in perfect condition , after resisting the ordinary tear and wear of upwards of a hundred and ten northern winters . The opposition to building houses across the North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing from day to day , until Edinburgh became one of the most handsome and picturesque cities in Europe . There is one other thing that I must again refer to the highly-finished character of my grandfather 's work . Nothing merely moderate would do . The work must be of the very best . He took special pride in the sound quality of the woodwork and its careful workmanship . He chose the best Dantzic timber because of its being of purer grain and freer from knots than other wood . In those days the lower part of the walls of the apartments were wainscoted  --  that is , covered by timber framed in large panels . They were from three to four feet wide , and from six to eight feet high . To fit these in properly required the most careful joiner-work . It was always a holiday treat to my father , when a boy , to be permitted to go down to Leith to see the ships discharge their cargoes of timber . My grandfather had a Wood-yard at Leith , where the timber selected by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before being worked into its appropriate uses . He was particularly careful in his selection of boards or stripes for floors , which must be perfectly level , so as to avoid the destruction of the carpets placed over them . The hanging of his doors was a matter that he took great pride in  --  so as to prevent any uneasy action in opening or closing . His own chamber doors were so well hung that they were capable of being opened and closed by the slight puff of a hand-bellows . The excellence of my grandfather 's workmanship was a thing that my own father always impressed upon me when a boy . It stimulated in me the desire to aim at excellence in everything that I undertook ; and in all practical matters to arrive at the highest degree of good workmanship . I believe that these early lessons had a great influence upon my future career . I have little to record of my grandmother . From all accounts she was everything that a wife and mother should be . My father often referred to her as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to her husband , and of a mother to her children . The only relic I possess of her handiwork is a sampler , dated 1743 , the needlework of which is so delicate and neat , that to me it seems to excel everything of the kind that I have seen . I am fain to think that her delicate manipulation in some respects descended to her grandchildren , as all of them have been more or less distinguished for the delicate use of their fingers  --  which has so much to do with the effective transmission of the artistic faculty into visible forms . The power of transmitting to paper or canvas the artistic conceptions of the brain through the fingers , and out at the end of the needle , the pencil , the pen , the brush , or even the modelling tool or chisel , is that which , in practical fact , constitutes the true artist . This may appear a digression ; though I can not look at my grandmother 's sampler without thinking that she had much to do with originating the Naesmyth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the practice of landscape and portrait painting , and other branches of the profession . My grandfather died in 1803 , at the age of eighty-four , and was buried by his father 's side in the Naesmyth ancestral tomb in Greyfriars Churchyard . His wife , Mary Anderson , who died before him , was buried in the same place . Michael Naesmyth left two sons  --  Michael and Alexander . The eldest was born in 1754 . It was intended that he should have succeeded to the business ; and , indeed , as soon as he reached manhood he was his father 's right-hand man . He was a skilful workman , especially in the finer parts of joiner-work . He was also an excellent accountant and bookkeeper . But having acquired a taste for reading books about voyages and travels , of which his father 's library was well supplied , his mind became disturbed , and he determined to see something of the world . He was encouraged by one of his old companions , who had been to sea , and realised some substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , notwithstanding the earnest remonstrances of his father , accompanied his friend on the next occasion when he went to sea . After several voyages to the West Indies and other parts of the world , which both gratified and stimulated his natural taste for adventures , and also proved financially successful , his trading ventures at last met with a sad reverse , and he resolved to abandon commerce , and enter the service of the Royal Navy . He was made purser , and in this position he entered upon a new series of adventures . He was present at many naval engagements . But he lost neither life nor limb . At last he was pensioned , and became a resident at Greenwich Hospital . He furnished his apartments with all manner of curiosities , such as his roving naval life had enabled him to collect . His original skill as a worker in wood came to life again . The taste of the workman and the handiness of the seaman enabled him to furnish his rooms at the Hospital in a most quaint and amusing manner . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and usually spent some days with him when he had occasion to visit London . One bright summer day they went to have a stroll together on Blackheath ; and while my uncle was enjoying a nap on a grassy knoll , my father made a sketch of him , which I still preserve . Being of a most cheerful disposition , and having a great knack of detailing the incidents of his adventurous life , he became a great favourite with the resident officers of the Hospital ; and was always regarded by them as real good company . He ended his days there in peace and comfort , in 1819 , at the age of sixty-four . CHAPTER 2 . Alexander Nasmyth My father , Alexander Nasmyth , was the second son of Michael Nasmyth . He was born in his father 's house in the Grassmarket on the 9th of September 1758 . The Grassmarket was then a lively place . On certain days of the week it was busy with sheep and cattle fairs . It was the centre of Edinburgh traffic . Most of the inns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Greyfriars Church gate . The view from my grandfather 's house was very grand . Standing up , right opposite , was the steep Castle rock , with its crown buildings and circular battery towering high overhead . They seemed almost to hang over the verge of the rock . The houses on the opposite side of the Grassmarket were crowded under the esplanade of the Castle Hill . There was an inn opposite the house where my father was born , from which the first coach started from Edinburgh to Newcastle . The public notice stated that " The Coach would set out from the Grass Market ilka Tuesday at Twa o'clock in the day , GOD WULLIN ' , but whether or no on Wednesday . " The " whether or no " was meant , I presume , as a precaution to passengers , in case all the places on the coach might be taken , or not , on Wednesday , Image Plan of the Grassmarket The Grassmarket was also the place for public executions . The gibbet stone was at the east end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sandstone , with a quadrangular hole in the middle , which served as a socket for the gallows . Most of the Covenanters who were executed for conscience ' sake in the reigns of Charles II . and James II . breathed their last at this spot . The Porteous mob , in 1736 , had its culmination here . When Captain Porteous was dragged out of the Tolbooth in the High Street and hurried down the West Bow , the gallows was not in its place ; but the leaders of the mob hanged him from a dyer 's pole , nearly opposite the gallows stone , on the south side of the street , not far from my grandfather 's door* footnote ... See Heart of Midlothian ... I have not much to say about my father 's education . For the most part , he was his own schoolmaster . I have heard him say that his mother taught him his A B C ; and that he afterwards learned to read at Mammy Smith 's . This old lady kept a school for boys and girls at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my father was taught to rear his Bible , and to repeat his Carritch. * footnote ... The Shorter Catechism . ... As it was only the bigger boys who could read the Bible , the strongest of them consummated the feat by climbing up the Castle rock , and reaching what they called " The Bibler 's Seat . " It must have been a break-neck adventure to get up to the place . The seat was almost immediately under the window of the room in which James VI was born . My father often pointed it out to me as one of the most dangerous bits of climbing in which he had been engaged in his younger years . Image The Bibler 's seat The annexed illustration is from his own slight sepia drawing ; the Bibler 's Seat is marked + Not so daring , but much more mischievous , was a trick which he played with some of his companions on the tops of the houses on the north side of the Grassmarket . The boys took a barrel to the Castlehill , filled it with small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the houses in the Grassmarket . The barrel leapt from rock to rock , burst , and scattered a shower of stones far and wide . The fun was to see the " boddies " look out of their garret windows with their lighted lamps or candles , peer into the dark , and try to see what was the cause of the mischief . Sir David Baird , the hero of Seringapatam , played a trick of the same kind before he went to India . Among my father 's favourite companions were the two sons of Dr. John Erskine , minister of Old Greyfriars , in conjunction with the equally celebrated Dr. Robertson . Dr. Erskine* footnote ... Dr. Erskine is well described by Scott in Guy Mannering , on the occasion when Pleydell and Mannering went to hear him preach a famous sermon . ... was a man of great influence in his day , well known for his literary and theological works , as well as for his piety and practical benevolence . On one occasion , when my father was at play with his sons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a neighbour 's window . A servant of the house ran out , and seeing the culprit , called out , " Very wee ! , Maister Erskine , I 'll tell yeer faither wha broke the windae ! " On which the boy , to throw her off the scent , said to his brother loudly , " Eh , keist ! she thinks we 're the boddy Erskine 's sons . " The boddy Erskine ! Who ever heard of such an irreverent nickname applied to that good and great man ? " The laddies couldna be his sons , " thought the woman . She made no further inquiry , and the boys escaped scot free . The culprit afterwards entered the service of the East India Company . " The boy was father to the man . " He acquired great reputation at the siege of Seringapatam , where he led the forlorn hope . Erskine was promoted , until in course of time he returned to his native city a full-blown general . To return to my father 's education . After he left " Mammy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the original High School . It was an old establishment , founded by James VI . before he succeeded to the English throne , It was afterwards demolished to make room for the University buildings ; and the new High School was erected a little below the old Royal Infirmary . After leaving the High School , Alexander Nasmyth was taught by his father , first arithmetic and mensuration , next geometry and mathematics , so far as the first three books of Euclid were concerned . After that , his own innate skill , ability , and industry enabled him to complete the rest of his education . At a very early period my father exhibited a decided natural taste for art . He used his pencil freely in sketching from nature ; and in course of time he showed equal skill in the use of oil colour . At his own earnest request he was bound apprentice to Mr. Crighton , then the chief coachbuilder in Edinburgh . He was employed in that special department where artistic taste was necessary  --  that is , in decorating the panels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coats of arms , with their crests and supporters . He took great pleasure in this kind of work . It introduced him to the practical details of heraldry , and gave him command over his materials . Still further to improve himself in the art of drawing , my father devoted his evenings to attending the Edinburgh Drawing Academy . This institution , termed " The Trustees ' Academy of Fine Art , " had been formed and supported by the funds arising from the estates confiscated after the rebellions of 1715 and 1745 . Part of these funds was set apart by Government for the encouragement of drawing , and also for the establishment of the arts of linen weaving , carpet manufacture , and other industrial occupations . These arts were introduced into Scotland by the French Protestants , who had been persecuted for conscience ' sake out of their own country , and settled in England , Ireland , and Scotland , where they prosecuted their industrial callings . The Corporation was anxious to afford an asylum for these skilled and able workmen . The emigrants settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damask , linen , and carpet weaving . They were also required to take Scotch apprentices , and teach them the various branches of their trade . The Magistrates caused cottages and workshops to be erected on a piece of unoccupied land near Edinburgh , where the street appropriately called Picardy Place now stands ,  --  the greater number of the weavers having come from Picardy in France . In connection with the establishment of these industrial artisans , it was necessary to teach the young Scotch apprentices drawing , for the purpose of designing new patterns suitable for the market . Hence the establishment by the Trustees of the Forfeited Estate Funds of " The Academy of Fine Art . " From the designing of patterns , the institution advanced to the improvement of the fine arts generally . Young men who had given proofs of their natural taste for drawing were invited to enter the school and participate in its benefits . At the time that my father was apprenticed to the coach painter , the Trustees ' Academy was managed by Alexander Runciman . He had originally been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ landscape painting . " Other artists , " said one who knew him , " talked meat and drink ; but Runciman talked landscape . " He went to Rome and studied art there . He returned to Edinburgh , and devoted himself to historical painting . He was also promoted to the office of master of the Trustees ' Academy . When my father called upon him with his drawings from nature , Runciman found them so satisfactory that he was at once admitted as a student . After his admission he began to study with intense eagerness . The young men who had been occupied at their business during the day could only attend in the evening . And thus the evenings were fixed for studying drawing and design . The Trustees ' Academy made its mark upon the art of Scotland : it turned out many artists of great note  --  such as Raeburn , Wilkie , my father , and many more . At the time when my father entered as a student , the stock of casts from the antique , and the number of drawings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much so , indeed , that Runciman was under the necessity of setting the students to copy them again and again . This became rather irksome to the more ardent pupils . My father had completed his sixth copy of a fine chalk drawing of " The Laocoon . " It was then set for him to copy again . He begged Mr. Runciman for another subject . The quick-tempered man at once said , " l 'll give you another subject . " And turning the group of the Laocoon upside down , he added , " Now , then , copy that ! " The patient youth set to work , and in a few evenings completed a perfect copy . It was a most severe test ; but Runciman was so proud of the skill of his pupil that he had the drawing mounted and framed , with a note of the circumstances under which it had been produced . It continued to hang there for many years , and the story of its achievement became traditional in the school . During all this time my father remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improved in his painting day by day . But at length an important change took place in his career . Allan Ramsay , son of the author of The Gentle Shepherd , and then court painter to George III. , called upon his old friend Crighton one day , to look over his works . There he found young Nasmyth painting a coat of arms on the panel of a carriage . He was so much surprised with the lad 's artistic workmanship  --  for he was then only sixteen  --  that he formed a strong desire to take him into his service . After much persuasion , backed by the offer of a considerable sum of money , the coachbuilder was at length induced to transfer my father 's indentures to Allan Ramsay . It was , of course , a great delight to my father to be removed to London under such favourable auspices . Ramsay had a large connection as a portrait painter . His object in employing my father was that he should assist him in the execution of the subordinate parts , or dress portions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No more favourable opportunity for advancement could have presented itself . But all this was entirely due to my father 's perseverance and advancing skill as an artist  --  the results of his steady application and labour . Ramsay possessed a very fine collection of drawings by the old masters , all of which were free for my father to study . Ramsay was exceedingly kind to his young pupil . He was present at all the discussions in the studio , even when the sitters were present . Fellow-artists visited Ramsay from time to time . Among them was his intimate friend Philip Reinagle  --  an agreeable companion , and an excellent artist . Reinagle was one day so much struck with my father 's earnestness in filling up some work , that he then and there got up a canvas and made a capital sketch-portrait of him in oil . It only came into my father 's possession some years after Ramsay 's death , and is now in my possession . Image Alexander Nasmyth . After Reinagle 's Portrait Among the many amusing recollections of my father 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not resist narrating , because it shows his faculty of resourcefulness  --  a faculty which served him very usefully during his course through life . He had made an engagement with a sweetheart to take her to Ranelagh , one of the most fashionable places of public amusement in London . Everybody went in full dress , and the bucks and swells wore long striped silk stockings . My father , on searching , found that he had only one pair of silk stockings left . He washed them himself in his lodging-room , and hung them up before the fire to dry . When he went to look at them , they were so singed and burnt that he could not put them on . They were totally useless . In this sad dilemma his resourcefulness came to his aid . The happy idea occurred to him of painting his legs so as to resemble stockings . He went to his water-colour box , and dexterously painted them with black and white stripes . When the paint dried , which it soon did , he completed his toilet , met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the difference , except , indeed , that he was complimented on the perfection of the fit , and was asked " where he bought his stockings ? " Of course he evaded the question , and left the gardens without any one discovering his artistic trick . My father remained in Allan Ramsay 's service until the end of 1778 , when he returned to Edinburgh to practise on his own behalf the profession of portrait painter . He took with him the kindest good-wishes of his master , whose friendship he retained to the end of Ramsay 's life . The artistic style of my father 's portraits , and the excellent likenesses of his sitters , soon obtained for him ample employment . His portraits were for the most part full-lengths , but of a small or cabinet size . They generally consisted of family groups , with the figures about twelve to fourteen inches high . The groups were generally treated and arranged as if the personages were engaged in conversation with their children ; and sometimes a favourite servant was introduced , so as to remove @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In order to enliven the background , some favourite view from the garden or grounds , or a landscape , was given ; which was painted with as much care as if it was the main feature of the picture . Many of these paintings are still to be found in the houses of the gentry in Scotland . Good examples of his art are to be seen at Minto House , the seat of the Earl of Minto , and at Dalmeny Park , the seat of the Earl of Rosebery . Among my father 's early employers was Patrick Miller , Esq. , of Dalswinton , in Dumfriesshire . He painted Mr. Miller 's portrait as well as those of several members of his family . This intercourse eventually led to the establishment of a very warm personal friendship between them . Miller had made a large fortune in Edinburgh as a banker ; and after he had partially retired from business , he devoted much of his spare time to useful purposes . He was a man of great energy of character , and was never idle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which he did with great success on his estate of Dalswinton . Being one of the largest shareholders in the Carron Ironworks near Stirling , he also devoted much of his time to the improvement of guns for the Royal Navy . He was the inventor of that famous gun the Carronade . The handiness of these short and effective guns , which were capable of being loaded and fired nearly twice as quickly as the long small-bore guns , gave England the victory in many a naval battle , where the firing was close and quick , yardarm to yardarm . But Mr. Miller 's greatest claim to fame arises from his endeavours to introduce steam-power as an agent in the propulsion of ships at sea . Mr. Clerk of Eldin had already invented the system of " breaking the line " in naval engagements  --  a system that was first practised with complete success by Lord Rodney in his engagement off Martinico in 1780 . The subject interested Mr. Miller so much that he set himself to work to contrive some mechanical method by means of which ships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wind , tide , or calms , so that Clerk 's system of breaking the line might be carried into effect under all circumstances . It was about this time that my father was often with Miller ; and the mechanical devices by means of which the method of breaking the line could be best accomplished was the subject of many of their conversations . Miller found that my father 's taste for mechanical contrivances , and his ready skill as a draughtsman , were likely to be of much use to him , and he constantly visited the studio . My father reduced Miller 's ideas to a definite form , and prepared a series of drawings , which were afterwards engraved and published . Miller 's favourite design was , to divide the vessel into twin or triple hulls , with paddles between them , to be worked by the crew . The principal experiment was made in the Firth of Forth on the 2d of June 1787 . The vessel was double-hulled , and was worked by a capstan of five bars . The experiment was on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propulsive power . After a spurt of an hour or so , the men became tired with their laborious work . Mr. Taylor , student of divinity , and tutor of Mr. Miller 's sons , was on board , and seeing the exhausted state of the men at the capstan , suggested the employment of steam-power . Mr. Miller was pleased with the idea , and resolved to make inquiry upon the subject . At that time William Symington , a young engineer from Wanlockhead , was exhibiting a road locomotive in Edinburgh . He was a friend of Taylor 's , and Mr. Miller went to see the Symington model . In the course of his conversation with the inventor , he informed the latter of his own project , and described the difficulty he had experienced in getting his paddle-wheels turned round . On which Symington immediately asked , " Why do n't you use the steam-engine ? " The model which Symington exhibited , produced rotary motion by the employment of ratchet-wheels . The rectilinear motion of the piston-rod was thus converted into rotary motion . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and gave Symington an order to make a pair of engines of that construction . They were to be used on a small pleasure-boat on Dalswinton Lake . The boat was constructed on the double-hull or twin plan , so that the paddle should be used in the space between the hulls. * footnote ... This steam twin boat was in fact the progenitor of the Castalia , constructed about a hundred years later for the conveyance of passengers between Calais and Dover . ... After much vexatious delay , arising from the entire novelty of the experiment , the boat and engines were at length completed , and removed to Dalswinton Lake . This , the first steamer that ever " trod the waters like a thing of life , " the herald of a new and mighty power , was tried on the 14th of October 1788 . The vessel steamed delightfully , at the rate of from four to five miles an hour , though this was not her extreme rate of speed . I give , on the next page , a copy of a sketch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with her remarkable crew . Image The first steamboat . By Alexander Nasmyth* footnote ... The original drawing of the steamer was done by my father , and lent by me to Mr. Woodcroft , Who inserted it in his Origin and Progress of Steam Navigation . He omitted my father 's name , and inserted only that of the lithographer , although it is a document of almost national importance in the history of Steam Navigation . P.S.  --  since the above paragraph was written for the first edition , I have been enabled to find the drawing , with another remarkable pencil sketch of my father 's , in the Gallery of the Museum of Naval Architecture at South Kensington . It will henceforward belong to that interesting collection . The remarkable pencil sketch to which I have referred , is that of a screw propeller , drawn by my father , dated 1819 . It was the result of many discussions as to the proper mode of propelling a vessel . First , he had drawn Watt 's idea of a " spiral oar " ; then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a disk of six . blades , like a screw-jack , immediately behind the rudder . There is a crank shown on the screw shaft , by which the propeller was driven direct , showing that he was the first to indicate that method of propulsion of steamboats . ... The persons on board consisted of Patrick Miller , William Symington , Sir William Monteith , Robert Burns ( the poet , then a tenant of Mr. Miller 's ) , William Taylor , and Alexander Nasmyth . There were also three of Mr. Miller 's servants , who acted as assistants . On the edge of the lake was a young gentleman , then on a visit to Dalswinton . He was no less a person than Henry Brougham , afterwards Lord Chancellor of England . The assemblage of so many remarkable men was well worthy of the occasion . Taking into account the extraordinary results which have issued from this first trial of an actual steamboat , it may well be considered that this was one of the most important circumstances which ever occurred in the history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be remembered that all that was afterwards done by Symington , Fulton , and Bell , followed long after the performance of this ever-memorable achievement . I may also mention , as worthy of special record , that the hull of this first steamboat was of iron . It was constructed of tinned iron plate . It was therefore the first iron steamboat , if not the first iron ship , that had ever been made . I may also add that the engines , constructed by Symington , which propelled this first iron steamboat are now carefully preserved at the Patent Museum at South Kensington , where they may be seen by everybody. * footnote ... The original engines of the boat , with the ratchet-wheel contrivance of Symington , are there : the very engine that propelled the first steamer on Dalswinton Lake . It may be added that Mr. Miller expended about #30,000 on naval improvements , and , as is often the case , he was wholly neglected by the Government . ... To return to my father 's profession as a portrait painter . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acting as his chief draughtsman in connection with the triple and twin ships , and also while attending him at Leith and elsewhere , that it had considerably interfered with his practice ; though everything was done by him con amore , in the best sense of the term . In return for this , however , Mr. Miller made my father the generous offer of a loan to enable him to visit Italy , and pursue his studies there . It was the most graceful mode in which Mr. Miller could express his obligations . It was an offer pure and simple , without security , and as such was thankfully accepted by my father . In those days an artist was scarcely considered to have completed his education until he had studied the works of the great masters at Florence and Rome . My father left England for Italy on the 30th of December 1782 . He reached Rome in safety , and earnestly devoted himself to the study of art . He remained in Italy for the greater part of two years . He visited Florence , Bologna @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ works were to be found . He made studies and drawings of the best of them , besides making sketches from nature of the most remarkable places he had visited . He returned to Edinburgh at the end of 1784 , and immediately resumed his profession of a portrait painter . He was so successful that in a short time he was enabled to repay his excellent friend Miller the #500 which he had so generously lent him a few years before . The satisfactory results of his zealous practice , and of his skill and industry in his profession , together with the prospect of increasing artistic work , enabled him to bring to a happy conclusion an engagement he had entered into before leaving Edinburgh for Italy . I mean his marriage to my mother  --  one of the greatest events of his life which took place on the 3rd of January 1786 . Barbara Foulis was a distant relation of his own . She was the daughter of William Foulis , Esq. , of Woodhall and Colinton , near Edinburgh . Her brother , the late Sir James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the family . See Burkes 's Peerage and Baronetage* footnote ... In Burke 's Peerage and Baronetage an account is given of the Foulis family . They are of Norman origin . A branch settled in Scotland in the reign of Malcolm Canmore . By various intermarriages , the Foulises are connected with the Hopetoun , Bute , and Rosebery families . The present holder of the title represents the houses of Colinton , Woodhall , and Ravelstone . ... My mother did not bring with her any fortune , so to speak , in the way of gold or acres ; but she brought something far better into my father 's home ,  --  a sweetness of disposition , and a large measure of common sense , which made her , in all respects , the devoted helpmate of her husband . Her happy cheerful temperament , and her constant industry and attention , shed an influence upon all around her . By her example she inbred in her children the love of truth , excellence , and goodness . That was indeed the best fortune she could bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year of my father 's married life , when he lived in St. James 's Square , he painted the well-known portrait of Robert Burns the poet . Burns had been introduced to him by Mr. Miller at Dalswinton . An intimate friendship sprang up between the artist and the poet . The love of nature and of natural objects was common to both . They also warmly sympathised in their political views . When Burns visited Edinburgh my father often met him . Burns had a strange aversion to sit for his portrait , though often urgently requested to do so . But when at my father 's studio , Burns at last consented , and his portrait was rapidly painted . It was done in the course of a few hours , and my father made a present of it to Mrs. Burns . A mezzotint engraving of it was afterwards published by William Walker , son-in-law of the famous Samuel Reynolds . When the first proof impression was submitted to my father , he said to Mr. Walker : " I can not better express to you my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it conveys to me a more true and lively remembrance of Burns than my own picture of him does ; it so perfectly renders the spirit of his expression , as well as the details of his every feature . " While Burns was in Edinburgh , my father had many interesting walks with him in the neighbourhood of the city . The Calton Hill , Arthur 's Seat , Salisbury Crags . Habbie 's How , and the nooks in the Pentlands , were always full of interest ; and Burns , with his brilliant and humorous conversation , made the miles very short as they strode along . Lockhart says , in his Life of Burns , that " the magnificent scenery of the Scottish capital filled the poet with extraordinary delight . In the spring mornings he walked very often to the top of Arthur 's Seat , and , lying prostrate on the turf , surveyed the rising of the sun out of the sea in silent admiration ; his chosen companion on such occasions being that learned artist and ardent lover of nature , Alexander @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roslin Castle is worthy of commemoration . On one occasion my father and a few choice spirits had been spending a " nicht wi ' Burns . " The place of resort was a tavern in the High Street , Edinburgh . As Burns was a brilliant talker , full of spirit and humour , time fled until the " wee sma ' hours ayont the twal ' " arrived . The party broke up about three o'clock . At that time of the year ( the 13th of June ) the night is very short , and morning comes early . Burns , on reaching the street , looked up to the sky . It was perfectly clear , and the rising sun was beginning to brighten the mural crown of St. Giles 's Cathedral . Burns was so much struck with the beauty of the morning that he put his hand on my father 's arm and said , " It 'll never do to go to bed in such a lovely morning as this ! Let 's awa ' to Roslin Castle . " No sooner said than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nature lay bright and lovely before them in that delicious summer morning . After an eight-miles walk they reached the castle at Roslin . Burns went down under the great Norman arch , where he stood rapt in speechless admiration of the scene . The thought of the eternal renewal of youth and freshness of nature , contrasted with the crumbling decay of man 's efforts to perpetuate his work , even when founded upon a rock , as Roslin Castle is , seemed greatly to affect him . My father was so much impressed with the scene that , while Burns was standing under the arch , he took out his pencil and a scrap of paper and made a hasty sketch of the subject . This sketch was highly treasured by my father , in remembrance of what must have been one of the most memorable days of his life . Talking of clubs reminds me that there was a good deal of club life in Edinburgh in those days . The most notable were those in which the members were drawn together by occupations , habits , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon congenial subjects . The clubs were generally held in one or other of the taverns situated in or near the High Street . Every one will remember the Lawyers ' Club , held in an Edinburgh close , presided over by Pleydell , so well described by Scott in Guy Mannering . In my father 's early days he was a member of a very jovial club , called the Poker Club . It was so-called because the first chairman , immediately on his election , in a spirit of drollery , laid hold of the poker at the fireplace , and adopted it as his insignia of office . He made a humorous address from the chair , or " the throne , " as he called it , with sceptre or poker in hand ; and the club was thereupon styled by acclamation " The Poker Club . " I have seen my father 's diploma of membership ; it was tastefully drawn on parchment , with the poker duly emblazoned on it as the regalia of the club . In my own time , the club that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its meetings were held every fortnight , on Thursday evenings , in a commodious tavern in the High Street . The members were chiefly artists , or men known for their love of art . Among then were Henry Raeburn , Hugh Williams ( the Grecian ) , Andrew Geddes , William Thomson , John Shetkay , William Nicholson , William Allan , Alexander Nasmyth , the Rev. John Thomson of Duddingston , George Thomson , Sir Walter Scott , John Lockhart , Dr. Brewster , David Wilkie , Henry Cockburn , Francis Jeffrey , John A. Murray , Professor Wilson , John Ballantyne , James Ballantyne , James Hogg ( the Ettrick Shepherd ) , and David Bridges , the secretary. * footnote ... Davie Bridges was a character . In my early days he was a cloth merchant in the High Street . His shop was very near that gigantic lounge , the old Parliament House , and was often resorted to by non-business visitors . Bridges had a good taste for pictures . He had a small but choice collection by the Old Masters , which he kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great pride in exhibiting them to his visitors , and expatiating upon their excellence . I remember being present in his warehouse with my father when a very beautiful small picture by Richard Wilson was under review . Davie burst out emphatically with , " Eh , man , did ye ever see such glorious buttery touches as on these clouds ! " His joking friends clubbed him " Director-General of the Fine Arts for Scotland , " a title which he complacently accepted . Besides showing off his pictures , Davie was an art critic , and wrote articles for the newspapers and magazines . Unfortunately , however , his attention to pictures prevented him from attending to his shop , and his customers ( who were not artists ) forsook him , and bought their clothes elsewhere . He accordingly shut up his shop , and devoted himself to art criticism , in which , for a time , he possessed a monopoly . ... The drinks were restricted to Edinburgh ale and whisky toddy . An admirable picture of the club in full meeting was painted by William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members were introduced in full social converse . Among the more prominent portraits is one of my father , who is represented as illustrating some subject he is describing , by drawing it on the part of the table before him , with his finger dipped in toddy . Other marked and well-known characteristics of the members are skilfully introduced in the picture . The artist afterwards sold it to Mr. Horrocks of Preston , in Lancashire . Besides portrait painting , my father was much employed in assisting the noblemen and landed gentry of Scotland in improving the landscape appearance of their estates , especially when seen from their mansion windows . His fine taste , and his love of natural scenery , gave him great advantages in this respect . He selected the finest sites for the new mansions , when they were erected in lieu of the old towers and crenellated castles . Or , he designed alterations of the old buildings so as to preserve their romantic features , and at the same time to fit them for the requirements of modern domestic life . In those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling for the landscape beauty of nature . There was an utter want of appreciation of the dignified beauty of the old castles and mansions , the remnants of which were in too many instances carted away as material for now buildings . There was also at that time an utter ignorance of the beauty and majesty of old trees . A forest of venerable oaks or beeches was a thing to be done away with . They were merely cut down as useless timber ; even when they so finely embellished the landscape . My father exerted himself successfully to preserve these grand old forest trees . His fine sketches served to open the eyes of their possessors to the priceless treasures they were about to destroy ; and he thus preserved the existence of many a picturesque old tree . He even took the pains in many cases to model the part of the estate he was dealing with ; and he also modelled the old trees he wished to preserve . Thus , by a judicious clearing out of the intercepting young timber , he opened out distant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preserved many a monarch of the forest. * footnote ... It is even now to be deeply deplored that those who inherit or come into possession of landed estates do not feel sufficiently impressed with the possession of such grand memorials of the past . Alas ! how often have we to lament the want of taste that leads to the sacrifice of these venerable treasures . Would that the young men at our universities especially those likely to inherit estates  --  were impressed with the importance of preserving them . They would thus confer an inestimable benefit to thousands . About forty years ago Lord Cockburn published a pamphlet on How to Destroy the Beauty of Edinburgh ! He enforced the charm of green foliage in combination with street architecture . The burgesses were then cutting down trees . His lordship went so far as to say " that he would as soon cut down a burgess as a tree ! " Since then the growth of trees in Edinburgh , especially in what was once the North Loch , has been greatly improved ; and might be still further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " were employed . ... Image The Family Tree My father modelled old castles , old trees , and such like objects as he wished to introduce into his landscapes . The above illustration , may perhaps give a slight idea of his artistic skill as a modeller . I specially refer to this , which he called " The Family Tree , " as he required each member of his family to assist in its production . We each made a twig or small branch , which he cleverly fixed into its place as a part of the whole . The model tree in question was constructed of wire slightly twisted together , so as to form the main body of a branch . It was then subdivided into branchlets , and finally into individual twigs . All these , combined together by his dexterous hand , resulted in the model of an old leafless tree , so true and correct , that any one would have thought that it had been modelled direct from nature . The Duke of Athol consulted my father as to the improvements which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Duke was desirous that a rocky crag , called Craigybarns , should be planted with trees , to relieve the grim barrenness of its appearance . But it was impossible for any man to climb the crag in order to set seeds or plants in the clefts of the rocks . A happy idea struck my father . Having observed in front of the castle a pair of small cannon used for firing salutes , it occurred to him to turn them to account . His object was to deposit the seeds of the various trees amongst the soil in the clefts of the crag . A tinsmith in the village was ordered to make a number of canisters with covers . The canisters were filled with all sorts of suitable tree seeds . A cannon was loaded , and the canisters were fired up against the high face of the rock . They burst and scattered the seed in all directions . Some years after , when my father revisited the place , he was delighted to find that his scheme of planting by artillery had proved completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recesses of the cliff . This was another instance of my father 's happy faculty of resourcefulness . Certain circumstances about this time compelled my father almost entirely to give up portrait painting and betake himself to another branch of the fine arts . The earnest and lively interest which he took in the state of public affairs , and the necessity which then existed for reforming the glaring abuses of the State , led him to speak out his mind freely on the subject . Edinburgh was then under the reign of the Dundases ; and scarcely anybody dared to mutter his objections to anything perpetrated by the " powers that be . " The city was then a much smaller place than it is now . There was more gossip , and perhaps more espionage , among the better classes , who were few in number . At all events , my father 's frank opinions on political subjects began to be known . He attended Fox dinners . He was intimate with men of known reforming views . All this was made the subject of general talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wealthy personages , that " if this went on any longer they would withdraw from him their employment . " My father did not alter his course ; it was right and honest . But he suffered nevertheless . His income from portrait painting fell off rapidly . At length he devoted himself to landscape painting . It was a freer and more enjoyable life . Instead of painting the faces of those who were perhaps without character or attractiveness , he painted the fresh and ever-beautiful face of nature . The field of his employment in this respect was almost inexhaustible . His artistic talent in this delightful branch of art was in the highest sense congenial to his mind and feelings ; and in course of time the results of his new field of occupation proved thoroughly satisfactory . In fact , men of the highest rank with justice entitled him the " Father of landscape painting in Scotland . " Image No. 47 York Place , Edinburgh At the same time , when changing his branch of art , he opened a class in his own house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He removed his house and studio from St. James 's Square to No. 47 York Place . There was at the upper part of this house a noble and commodious room . There he held his class . The house was his own , and was built after his own designs . A splendid prospect was seen from the upper windows ; and especially from the Belvidere , which he had constructed on the summit of the roof . The view extended from Stirling in the west to the Bass Rock in the east . In fine summer evenings the sun was often seen setting behind Ben Lomond and the more conspicuous of the Perthshire mountains . My father did not confine himself to landscape painting , or to the instruction of his classes . He was an all-round man . He had something of the Universal about him . He was a painter , an architect , and a mechanic . Above all , he possessed a powerful store of common sense . Of course , I am naturally a partial judge of my father 's character ; but this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seventy years I have never known a more incessantly industrious man . His hand and mind were always at work from morn till night . During the time that he was losing his business in portrait painting , he set to work and painted scenery for the theatres . The late David Roberts  --  himself a scene painter of the highest character  --  said that his style was founded upon that of Nasmyth. * footnote ... David Roberts , R , A. , in his Autobiography , gives the following recollections of Alexander Nasmyth :  --  " In 1819 I commenced my career as principal scene painter in the Theatre Royal , Glasgow . This theatre was immense in its size and appointments  --  in magnitude exceeding Drury Lane and Covent Garden . The stock scenery had been painted by Alexander Nasmyth , and consisted of a series of pictures far surpassing anything of the kind I had ever seen . These included chambers , palaces , streets , landscapes , and forest scenery . One , I remember particularly , was the outside of a Norman castle , and another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a sketch . But the act scene , which was a view on the Clyde looking towards the Highland mountains with Dumbarton Castle in the middle distance , was such a combination of magnificent scenery , so wonderfully painted , that it excited universal admiration . These productions I studied incessantly ; and on them my style , if I have any , was originally founded . " ... Stanfield was another of his friends . On one occasion Stanfield showed him his sketch-book , observing that he wished to form a style of his own . " Young man , " said Nasmyth , " there 's but one style an artist should endeavour to attain , and that is the style of nature ; the nearer you can get to that the better . " My father was greatly interested in the architectural beauty of his native city , and he was professionally consulted by the authorities about the laying out of the streets of the New Town . The subject occupied much of his time and thought , especially when resting from the mental fatigue arising from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular practice to stroll about where the building work was in progress , or where new roads were being laid out , and carefully watch the proceedings . This was probably due to the taste which he had inherited from his forebears  --  more especially from his father , who had begun the buildings of the New Town . My father took pleasure in modelling any improvement that occurred to him ; and in discussing the subject with the architects and builders who were professionally engaged in the works . His admirable knack of modelling the contour of the natural surface of the ground , and applying it to the proposed new roads or new buildings , was striking and characteristic . His efforts in this direction were so thoroughly disinterested that those in office were all the more anxious to carry out his views . He sought for no reward ; but his excellent advice was not unrecognised . In testimony of the regard which the Magistrates of Edinburgh had for his counsel and services , they presented him in 1815 with a sum of #200 , together with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was addressed to him under cover , directed to " Alexander Nasmyth , Architect . " He was , indeed , not unworthy of the name . He was the architect of the Dean Bridge , which spans the deep valley of the Water of Leith , north-west of the New Town . Sir John Nesbit , the owner of the property north of the stream , employed my father to make a design for the extension of the city to his estate . The result was the construction of the Dean Bridge , and the roads approaching it from both sides . The Dean Estate was thus rendered as easy and convenient to reach as any of the level streets of Edinburgh . The construction of the bridge was superintended by the late James Jardine , C.E. Mr Telford was afterwards called upon to widen the bridge . He threw out parapets on each side , but they did not improve the original design . Image St Bernard 's Well From the Dean Bridge another of my father 's architectural buildings may be seen , at St. Bernard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his friend Lord Gardenstone . The design consists of a graceful circular temple , built over a spring of mineral water , which issues from the rock below . It was dedicated to Hygeia , the Goddess of Health . The whole of the details are beautifully finished , and the basement of the design will be admired by every true artist . It is regarded as a great ornament , and is thoroughly in keeping with the beauty of the surrounding scenery . Shortly after the death of Lord Nelson it was proposed to erect a monument to his memory on the Calton Hill . My father supplied a design , which was laid before the Monument Committee . It was so much approved that the required sum was rapidly subscribed . But as the estimated cost of this erection was found slightly to exceed the amount subscribed , a nominally cheaper design was privately adopted . It was literally a job . The vulgar , churn-like monument was thus thrust on the public and actually erected ; and there it stands to this day , a piteous sight to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost the amount of the estimate for my father 's design . I give a sketch of my father 's memorial ; and I am led to do this because it is erroneously alleged that he was the architect of the present inverted spy glass , called " Nelson 's Monument " Image Nelson 's Monument as it should have been . Then , with respect to my father 's powers as a mechanic . This was an inherited faculty , and I leave my readers to infer from the following pages whether I have not had my fair share of this inheritance . Besides his painting room , my father had a workroom fitted up with all sorts of mechanical tools . It was one of his greatest pleasures to occupy himself there as a relief from sitting at the easel , or while within doors from the inclemency of the weather . The walls and shelves of his workroom were crowded with a multitude of artistic and ingenious mechanical objects , nearly all of which were the production of his own hands . Many of them were associated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted his most intimate friends , or such as could understand and appreciate the variety of objects connected with art and mechanism , to his workroom . His natural taste for neatness and arrangement gave it a very orderly aspect , however crowded its walls and shelves might be . Everything was in its place , and there was a place for everything . It was in this workroom that I first began to handle mechanical tools . It was my primary technical school  --  the very foreground of my life . Image Bow-and-string Roofs and Bridges I may mention one or two of my father 's mechanical efforts , or rather his inventions in applied science . One of the most important was the " bow-and-string bridge , " as he first called it , to which he early directed his attention . He invented this important method of construction about the year 1794 . The first bow-and-string bridge was erected in the island of St. Helena over a deep ravine . Many considered , from its apparent slightness , that it was not fitted to sustain any considerable load @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given of its stability by the passage over it of a herd of wild oxen , that rushed across without the slightest damage to its structure . After so severe a test it was for many succeeding years employed as a most valuable addition to the accessibility of an important portion of the island . The bow-and-string bridge has since been largely employed in spanning wide spaces over which suburban and other railways pass , and in roofing over such stations as those at Birmingham , Charing Cross , and other Great Metropolitan centres , as well as in bow-and-string bridges over rivers . I give the fac-simile of his original drawings* footnote ... The original drawings of these bow-and-string bridges , of various spans , are now deposited at the Gallery of the Museum of Naval Architecture at South Kensington , and are signed " Alexander Nasmyth 1796. " ... for the purpose of showing our great railway engineers the originator of the graceful and economical method of spanning wide spaces , now practised in every part of the civilised world . Another of his inventions was the method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It originated in a slight circumstance . One wet , wintry Sunday morning he went into his workroom . There were some slight mechanical repairs to be performed upon a beautiful little stove of his own construction . To repair it , iron rivets were necessary to make it serviceable . But as the hammering of the hot rivets would annoy his neighbours by the unwelcome sound of the hammer , he solved the difficulty by using the jaws of his bench vice to squeeze in the hot rivets when put into their places . The stove was thus quickly repaired in the most perfect silence . This was , perhaps , the first occasion on which a squeeze or compressive action was substituted for the percussive action of the hammer , in closing red-hot rivets , for combining together pieces of stout sheet or plate iron . This system of riveting was long afterwards patented by Smith of Deanston in combination with William Fairbairn of Manchester ; and it was employed in riveting the plates used in the construction of the bridges over the River Conway and the Menai @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ girder making , and in all other wrought-iron structures in which thorough sound riveting is absolutely essential ; and by the employment of hydraulic power in a portable form a considerable portion of iron shipbuilding is effected by the silent squeeze system in place of hammers , much to the advantage of the soundness of the work . My father frequently , in aftertimes , practised this mode of riveting by compression in place of using the blow of a hammer ; and in remembrance of the special circumstances under which he contrived this silent and most effective method of riveting , he named it " The Sunday Rivet . " CHAPTER 3 . An Artist 's Family . Although Alexander Nasmyth had to a considerable extent lost his aristocratic connection as a portrait painter , yet many kind and generous friends gathered round him . During his sojourn in Italy , in 1783 , he had the good fortune to make the acquaintance of Sir James Hall of Dunglass , Haddingtonshire . The acquaintance afterwards ripened into a deeply-rooted friendship . During the winter season Sir James resided with his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was passionately attached to the pursuit of art and science . He practised the art of painting in my father 's room , and was greatly helped by him in the requisite manipulative skill . Sir James was at that time engaged in writing his well-known essay " On the Origin of Gothic Architecture , " and in this my father was of important use to him . He executed the greater number of the illustrations for this beautiful work . The book when published had a considerable influence in restoring the taste of architects to a style which they had heretofore either neglected or degraded . Besides his enthusiasm in art and architecture , Sir James devoted a great deal of time to the study of geology . The science was then in its infancy . Being an acute observer , Hall 's attention was first attracted to the subject by the singular geological features of the sea-coast near his mansion at Dunglass . The neighbourhood of Edinburgh also excited his interest . The upheaval of the rocks by volcanic heat  --  as seen in the Castle Hill , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great measure the foundation of the picturesque beauty of the city . Those were the days of the Wernerian and Huttonian controversy as to the origin of the changes on the surface of the earth . Sir James Ball was President of the Edinburgh Royal Society , and necessarily took an anxious interest in the discussions . He observed and experimented , and established the true volcanic nature of the composition and formation of the rocks and mountains which surround Edinburgh . I have been led to speak of this subject , because when a boy I was often present at the discussions of these great principles . My father , Sir James Hall , Professors Playfair and Leslie , took their accustomed walks round Edinburgh , and I clung eagerly to their words . Though unable to understand everything that was said , these walks had a great influence upon my education . Indeed , what education can compare with that of listening attentively to the conversation and interchange of thought of men of the highest intelligence ? It is on such occasions that ideas , not mere words , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the close of life . Besides mixing in the society of scientific men , my father enjoyed a friendly intercourse with the artists of his day . He was often able to give substantial help and assistance to young students ; and he was most liberal in giving them valuable practical instruction , and in assisting them over the manipulative difficulties which lay in their way . He was especially assiduous when he saw them inspired by the true spirit of art , and full of application and industry ,  --  without which nothing can be accomplished . Amongst these young men were David Wilkie , Francis Grant , David Roberts , Clarkson Stanfield , William Allan , Andrew Geddes , " Grecian " Williams , Lizars the engraver , and the Rev. John Thomson of Duddingston . Henry Raeburn was one of his most intimate friends and companions . He considered Raeburn 's broad and masterly style of portrait painting as an era in Scottish art . Raeburn , with innate tact , discerned the character of his sitters , and he imparted so much of their individuality into his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense . In connection with Raeburn , I may mention that when he was knighted by George IV . in 1822 , my father , who was then at the head of his profession in Scotland , was appointed chairman at the dinner held to do honour to the great Scottish portrait painter . Raeburn often joined my father in his afternoon walks round Edinburgh  --  a relaxation so very desirable after hours of close attention to artistic work . They took delight in the wonderful variety of picturesque scenery by which the city is surrounded . The walks about Arthur 's Seat were the most enjoyable of all . When a boy I had often the pleasure of accompanying them , and of listening to their conversation . I thus picked up many an idea that served me well in after life . Indeed , I may say , after a long experience , that there is no class of men whose company I more delight in than that of artists . Their innate and highly-cultivated power of observation , not only as regards the ever-varying aspects of nature , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humorous varieties of character , concur in rendering their conversation most delightful . I look back on these walks as among the brightest points in my existence . I have been led to digress on this subject . Although more correctly belonging to my father 's life , yet it is so amalgamated with my own that it almost forms part of it , and it is difficult for me to separate the one from the other . And then there were the pleasant evenings at home . When the day 's work was over , friends looked in to have a fireside crack  --  sometimes scientific men , sometimes artists , often both . They were all made welcome . There was no formality about their visits . Had they been formal , there would have been comparatively little pleasure . The visitor came in with his " Good e'en " , and seated himself . The family went on with their work as before . The girls were usually busy with their needles , and others with pen and pencil . My father would go on with the artistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incessant . He would model a castle or a tree , or proceed with some proposed improvement of the streets or approaches of the rapidly expanding city . Among the most agreeable visitors were Professor Leslie , James Jardine , C.E. , and Dr. Brewster . Their conversation was specially interesting . They brought up the last new thing in science , in discovery , in history , or in campaigning , for the war was then raging throughout Europe . The artists were a most welcome addition to the family group . Many a time did they set the table in a roar with their quaint and droll delineations of character . These unostentatious gatherings of friends about our fireside were a delightful social institution . The remembrance of them lights up my recollection of the happiest period of a generally happy life . Could I have been able to set forth the brightness and cheerfulness of these happy evenings at my father 's house , I am fain to think that my description might have been well worth reading . But all the record of them that remains is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which makes me think that , although in these days of rapid transit over earth and ocean , and surrounded as we are with the results of applied scientific knowledge , we are not a bit more happy than when all the vaunted triumphs of science and so-called education were in embryo . The supper usually followed , for my father would not allow his visitors to go away supperless . The meal did not amount to much . Rizard or Finnan harddies , or a dish of oysters , with a glass of Edinburgh ale , and a rummer of toddy , concluded these friendly evenings . The cry of " Caller Aou " was constantly heard in the streets below of an evening . When the letter r was in the name of the month , the supply of oysters was abundant . The freshest oysters , of the most glorious quality , were to be had at 2s. 6d. the hundred ! And what could be more refreshing food for my father 's guests ? These unostentatious and inexpensive gatherings of friends were a most delightful social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or seventy years ago . What they are now I can not tell . But I fear they have disappeared in the more showy and costly tastes that have sprung up in the progress of what is called " modern society . " No part of my father 's character was more admirable than his utter unselfishness . He denied himself many things , that he might give the greater pleasure to his wife and children . He would scarcely take part in any enjoyment , unless they could have their fair share of it . In all this he was faithfully followed by my mother . The admirable example of well-sustained industry that was always before her , sustained her in her efforts for the good of her family . She was intelligently interested in all that related to her husband 's business and interests , as well as in his recreative enjoyments . The household affairs were under her skilful guidance . She conducted them with economy , and yet with generous liberality , free from the least taint of ostentation or extravagance . The home fireside was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been blest with this sunny gift . Indeed , a merrier family circle I have never seen . There were twelve persons round the table to be provided for , besides two servants . This required , on my mother 's part , a great deal of management , as every housekeeper will know . Yet everything was provided and paid for within the year 's income . The family result of my father and mother 's happy marriage was four sons and seven daughters . Patrick , the eldest , was born in 1787 . He was called after my father 's dear and constant friend , Patrick Miller of Dalswinton . I will speak by and by of his artistic reputation . Then followed a long succession of daughters  - -  Jane , the eldest ' , was born in 1788 ; Barbara 1790 ; Margaret in 1791 ; Elizabeth in 1793 ; Anne in 1798 ; Charlotte in 1804 . Then came a succession of three sons  --  Alexander , George , and James . There followed another daughter , Mary ; but as she only lived for about eighteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My sisters all possessed , in a greater or less degree , an innate love of art , and by their diligent application they acquired the practice of painting landscape in oils . My father 's admirable system and method of teaching rendered them expert in making accurate sketches from nature , which , as will afterwards be seen , they turned to good account . My eldest sister , Jane , was in all respects a most estimable character , and a great help to my mother in the upbringing of the children . Jane was full of sound common sense ; her judgment seemed to be beyond her years . Because of this the younger members of the family jokingly nicknamed her " Old Solid " !  --  Even my father consulted her in every case of importance in reference to domestic and financial affairs . I had the great good fortune , when a child , to be placed under her special protection , and I have reason to be thankful for the affectionate care which she took of me during the first six years of my life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was equally earnest in her desire to give her daughters a thorough practical knowledge in every department and detail of household management . When they had attained a suitable age they were in succession put in charge of all the household duties for two weeks at a time . The keys were given over to them , together with the household books , and at the end of their time their books were balanced to a farthing . They were then passed on to the next in succession . One of the most important branches of female education  --  the management of the domestic affairs of a family , the superintendence of the cooking so as to avoid waste of food , the regularity of the meals , and the general cleaning up of the rooms  - -  was thus thoroughly attained in its best and most practical forms . And under the admirable superintendence of my mother everything in our family went on like clockwork . My father 's object was to render each and all of his children  - -  whether boys or girls  --  independent on their arrival at mature years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daughters to fine art . By this means he enabled them to assist in the maintenance of the family while at home , and afterwards to maintain themselves by the exercise of their own abilities and industry after they had left . To accomplish this object , as already described , he set on foot drawing classes , which were managed by his six daughters , superintended by himself . Edinburgh was at that time the resort of many county families . The war which raged abroad prevented their going to the Continent . They therefore remained at home , and the Scotch families for the most part took up their residence in Edinburgh . There were many young ladies desiring to complete their accomplishments , and hence the establishment of my sisters ' art class . It was held in the large painting-room in the upper part of the house . It soon became one of the most successful institutions in Edinburgh . When not engaged in drawing and oil painting , the young ladies were occupied in sketching from nature , under the superintendence of my sisters , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most delightful exercises in which they could be engaged ; and it also formed the foundation for many friendships which only terminated with life . My father increased the interest of the classes by giving little art lectures . They were familiar but practical . He never gave lectures as such , but rather demonstrations . It was only when a pupil encountered some technical difficulty , or was adopting some wrong method of proceeding , that he undertook to guide them by his words and practical illustrations . His object was to embue the minds of the pupils with high principles of art . He would take up their brushes and show by his dexterous and effective touches how to bring out , with marvellous ease , the right effects of the landscape . The other pupils would come and stand behind him , to see and hear his clear instructions carried into actual practice on the work before him . He often illustrated his little special lessons by his stores of instructive and interesting anecdotes , which no doubt helped to rivet his practice all the deeper into their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In many cases both mothers and daughters might be seen at work together in that delightful painting-room . I have occasionally met with some of them in after years , who referred to those pleasant hours as among the most delightful they had ever spent . These classes were continued for many years . In the meantime my sisters ' diligence and constant practice enabled them in course of time to exhibit their works in the fine art exhibitions of Edinburgh . Each had her own individuality of style and manner , by which their several works were easily distinguished from each other . Indeed , whoever works after Nature will have a style of their own . They all continued the practice of oil painting until an advanced age . The average duration of their lives was about seventy-eight . There was one point which my father diligently impressed upon his pupils , and that was the felicity and the happiness attendant upon pencil drawing . He was a master of the pencil , and in his off-hand sketches communicated his ideas to others in a way that mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Language . A few strokes of the pencil can convey ideas which quires of writing would fail to impart . This is one of the most valuable gifts which a man who has to do with practical subjects can possess . " The language of the pencil " is a truly universal one , especially in communicating ideas which have reference to material forms . And yet it is in a great measure neglected in our modern system of education . The language of the tongue is often used to disguise our thoughts , whereas the language of the pencil is clear and explicit . Who that possesses this language can fail to look back with pleasure on the course of a journey illustrated by pencil drawings ? They bring back to you the landscapes you have seen , the old streets , the pointed gables , the entrances to the old churches , even the bits of tracery , with a vividness of association such as mere words could never convey . Thus , looking at an old sketch-book brings back to you the recollection of a tour , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its picturesque and beautiful associations . On many a fine summer 's day did my sisters make a picnic excursion into the neighbourhood of Edinburgh . They were accompanied by their pupils , sketch-book and pencil in hand . As I have already said , there is no such scenery near any city that I know of . Arthur 's Seat and Salisbury Crags , Duddingston Loch , the Braid Hills , Craigmillar Castle , Hawthornden , Roslin , Habbie 's How , and the many valleys and rifts in the Pentlands , with Edinburgh and its Castle in the distance ; or the scenery by the sea-shore , all round the coast from Newhaven to Gullane and North Berwick Law . The excursionists came home laden with sketches . I have still by me a multitude of these graphic records made by my sisters . Each sketch , however slight , strikes the keynote , as it were , to many happy recollections of the circumstances , and the persons who were present at the time it was made . I know not of any such effective stimulant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Written words may be forgotten , but these slight pencil recollections imprint themselves on the mind with a force that can never be effaced . Everything that occurred at the time rises up as fresh in the memory as if hours and not years had passed since then . They bring to the mind 's eye many dear ones who have passed away , and remind us that we too must follow them . It is much to be regretted that this valuable art of graphic memoranda is not more generally practised . It is not merely a most valuable help to the memory , but it educates the eye and the hand , and enables us to cultivate the faculty of definite observation . This is one of the most valuable accomplishments that I know of , being the means of storing up ideas , and not mere words , in the mental recollection of both men and women . Before I proceed to record the recollections of my own life , I wish to say something about my eldest brother Patrick , the well-known landscape painter . He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best and almost his only instructor . At a very early age he manifested a decided taste for drawing and painting . His bent was landscape . This gave my father great pleasure , as it was his own favourite branch of art . The boy acquired great skill in sketching trees , clouds , plants , and foregrounds . He studied with wonderful assiduity and success . I possess many of his graphic memoranda , which show the care and industry with which he educated his eye and hand in rendering with truth and fidelity the intimate details of his art . The wild plants which he introduced into the foregrounds of his pictures were his favourite objects of study . But of all portions of landscape nature , the Sky was the one that most delighted him . He studied the form and character of clouds  --  resting cloud , the driving cloud , and the rain cloud  --  and the sky portions of his paintings were thus rendered so beautifully attractive . He was so earnest in his devotion to the study of landscape that in some respects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successfully accomplished the three R. 's , but after that his school was the fields , in the face of Nature . He was by no means a Romantic painter . His taste was essentially for Home subjects . In his landscapes he introduced picturesque farm-houses and cottages , with their rural surroundings ; and his advancement and success were commensurate with his devotion to this fine branch of art . The perfect truth with which he represented English scenery , associated as it is with so many home-loving feelings , forms the special attractiveness of his works . This has caused them to be eagerly sought after , and purchased at high prices . Patrick had a keen sense of humour , though in other respects he was simple and unpretending . He was a great reader of old-fashioned novels , which indeed in those days were the only works of the kind to be met with . The Arabian Nights , Robinson crusoe , The Mysteries of Udolpho , and such like , were his favourites , and gave a healthy filip to his imagination . He had also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ melodies and overtures as he went along with his work . He acquired a fair skill in violin playing . While tired with sitting or standing he would take up his violin , play a few passages , and then go to work again . Patrick removed to London in 1808 , and exhibited at the Royal Academy in the following year . He made excursions to various parts of England , where he found subjects congenial to his ideas of rural beauty . The immediate neighbourhood of London , however , a bounded with the most charming and appropriate subjects for his pencil . These consisted of rural " bits " of the most picturesque but homely description  --  decayed pollard trees and old moss-grown orchards , combined with cottages and farm-houses in the most paintable state of decay , with tangled hedges and neglected fences , overrun with vegetation clinging to them with all " the careless grace of Nature . " However neglected these might be by the farmer , they were always tit-bits for Patrick . When sketching such subjects he was in his glory , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which when painted form the gems of many a collection . In some of these charming subjects glimpses of the distant capital may be observed , with the dome of St. Paul 's in the distance ; but they are introduced with such skill and correctness as in no way to interfere with the rural character of his subject . When he went farther afield  --  to Windsor Forest , Hampshire , the New Forest , or the Isle of Wight  --  he was equally diligent with his pencil , and came home laden with sketches of the old monarchs of the forest . When in a state of partial decay his skilful touch brought them to life again , laden with branches and lichen , with leaves and twigs and bark , and with every feature that gives such a charm to these important elements in true English landscape scenery . On my brother 's first visit to London , accompanied by my father , he visited many collections where the old Dutch masters were to be seen , and he doubtless derived much advantage from his careful studies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Wynants . These came home to him as representations of Nature as she is . They were more free from the traditional modes of representing her . The works of Claude Lorraine and Richard Wilson were also the objects of his admiration , though the influence of the time for classicality of treatment to a certain extent vitiated these noble works . When a glorious sunset was observed , the usual expression among the lovers of art was , " What a magnificent Claudish effect ! " thus setting up the result of man 's feeble attempt at representation as the standard of comparison , in place of the far grander original ! My brother carefully studied Nature herself . His works , following those of my father , led back the public taste to a more healthy and true condition , and by the aid of a noble army of modern British landscape painters , this department of art has been elevated to a very high standard of truth and excellence . I find some letters from Patrick to my father , after his settlement as an artist in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money during the early part of his career , and afterwards until he had received the amount of his commissions for pictures . In one of his letters he says : " That was an unlucky business , the loss of that order which you were so good as send me on my account . " It turned out that the order had dropt out of the letter enclosing it , and was not recovered . In fact , Patrick was very careless about all money transactions . In 1814 he made the acquaintance of Mr. Barnes , and accompanied him to Bure Cottage , Ringwood , near Southampton , where he remained for some time . He went into the New Forest , and brought home " lots of sketches . " In 1815 he exhibited his works at the Royal Academy . He writes to his father that " the prices of my pictures in the Gallery are  - -  two at fourteen guineas each ( small views in Hampshire ) , one at twelve guineas , and two at fourteen guineas . They are all sold but one . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to three hundred guineas each . But in those days good work was little known , and landscapes especially were very little sought after . Patrick Nasmyth 's admirable rendering of the finer portions of landscape nature attracted the attention of collectors , and he received many commissions from them at very low prices . There was at that time a wretched system of delaying the payment for pictures painted on commission , as well as considerable loss of time by the constant applications made for the settlement of the balance . My brother was accordingly under the necessity of painting his pictures for the Dealers , who gave him at once the price which he required for his works . The influence of this system was not always satisfactory . The Middlemen or Dealers , who stood between the artist and the final possessor of the works , were not generous . They higgled about prices , and the sums which they gave were almost infinitesimal compared with the value of Patrick Nasmyth 's pictures at the present time . The Dealers were frequent visitors at his little painting-room in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's simplicity and innate modesty in regard to the commercial value of his works . When he had sketched in a beautiful subject , and when it was clear that in its highest state of development it must prove a fine work , the Dealer would pile up before him a row of guineas , or sovereigns , and say , " Now , Peter , that picture 's to be mine ! " , The real presence of cash proved too much for him . He never was a practical man . He agreed to the proposal , and thus he parted with his pictures for much less than they were worth . He was often remonstrated with by his brother artists for letting them slip out of his hands in that way  --  works that he would not surrender until he had completed them , and brought them up to the highest point of his fastidious taste and standard of excellence . Among his dearest friends were David Roberts and Clarkson Stanfield . He usually replied to their friendly remonstrances by laughingly pointing to his bursting portfolios of sketches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in these banks to draw from . " He thus warded off their earnest and often-repeated remonstrances . Being a single man , and his habits and style of living of the most simple kind , he had very little regard for money except as it ministered to his immediate necessities . His evenings were generally spent at a club of brother artists " over the water ; " and in their company he enjoyed many a pleasant hour . His days were spent at his easel . They were occasionally varied by long walks into the country near London , for the purpose of refilling his sketch-book . It was on one of such occasions  --  when he was sketching the details of some picturesque pollard old willows up the Thames , and standing all the time in wet ground  --  that he caught a severe cold which confined him to the house . He rapidly became worse . Two of his sisters , who happened to be in London at the time , nursed him with devoted attention . But it was too late . The disease had taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ l7th August 1831 there was a violent thunderstorm . At length the peals of thunder ceased , the rain passed away , and the clouds dispersed . The setting sun burst forth in a golden glow . The patient turned round on his couch and asked that the curtains might be drawn . It was done . A blaze of sunset lit up his weary and worn-out face . " How glorious it is ! " he said . Then , as the glow vanished he fell into a deep and tranquil sleep , from which he never awoke . Such was the peaceful end of my brother Patrick , at the comparatively early age of forty-four years . CHAPTER 4 . My Early Years . I WAS born on the morning of the 19th of August 1808 , at my father 's house No. 47 York Place , Edinburgh . I was named James Hall after my father 's dear friend , Sir James Hall of Dunglass . My mother afterwards told me that I must have been " a very noticin ' bairn , " as she observed me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following with my little eyes any one who happened to be in the room , as if I had been thinking to my little self , " Who are you ? " After a suitable time I was put under the care of a nursemaid . I remember her well  --  Mary Peterkin  --  a truly Scandinavian name . She came from Haddingtonshire , where most of the people are of Scandinavian origin . Her hair was of a bright yellow tint . She was a cheerful young woman , and sang to me like a nightingale . She could not only sing old Scotch songs , but had a wonderful memory for fairy tales . When under the influence of a merry laugh , you could scarcely see her eyes ; their twinkle was hidden by her eyelids and lashes . She was a willing worker , and was always ready to lend a helping hand at everything about the house , she took great pride in me , calling me her " laddie . " When I was toddling about the house , another sister was born , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and to improve her health she was sent to a small farm-house at Braid Hills , about four miles south of Edinburgh . It was one of the most rural and beautiful surroundings of the city at that time . One of my earliest recollections is that of being taken to see poor little Mary at the farmer 's house . While my nursemaid was occupied in inquiring after my sister , I was attracted by the bright red poppies in a neighbouring field . When they made search for me I could not be found . I was lost for more than an hour . At last , seeing a slight local disturbance among the stalks of corn , they rushed to they spot , and brought me out with an armful of brilliant red poppies . To this day poppies continue to be my greatest favourites . When I was about four or five years old , I was observed to give a decided preference to the use of my left hand . Everything was done to prevent my using it in preference to the right . My @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wrong arm by my nurse while an infant . The right hand was thus confined , and the left hand was used . I was constantly corrected , but " on the sly " I always used it , especially in drawing my first little sketches . At last my father , after viewing with pleasure one of my artistic efforts , done with the forbidden hand , granted it liberty and independence for all time coming . " Well , " he said , " you may go on in your own way in the use of your left hand , but I fear you will be an awkward fellow in everything that requires handiness in life . I used my right hand in all that was necessary , and my left in all sorts of practical manipulative affairs . My left hand has accordingly been my most willing and obedient servant in transmitting my will through my fingers into material or visible forms . In this way I became ambidexter . When I was about four years old , I often followed my father into his workshop when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his mechanical contrivances or artistic models . The persons present usually expressed their admiration in warm terms of what was shown to them . On one occasion I gently pulled the coat-tail of one of the listeners and confidentially said to him , as if I knew all about it , " My papa 's a kevie Fellae ! " My father was so greatly amused by this remark that he often referred to it as " the last good thing " from that old-fashioned creature little Jamie . One of my earliest recollections is the annual celebration of my brother Patrick 's birthday . Being the eldest of the family , his birthday was held in special honour . My father invited about twenty of his most intimate friends to dinner . My mother brought her culinary powers into full operation . The younger members of the family also took a lively interest in all that was going on , with certain reversionary views as to " the day after the feast . " We took a great interest in the Trifle , which was no trifle in reality , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its preparation . In connection with this celebration , it was all established institution that a large hamper always arrived in good time from the farm attached to my mother 's old home at Woodhall , near Edinburgh . It contained many substantial elements for the entertainment  --  a fine turkey , fowls , duck , and suchlike ; with two magnums of the richest cream . There never was such cream ! It established a standard of cream in my memory ; and since then I have always been hypercritical about the article . On one of these occasions , when I was about four years old , and being the youngest of the family , I was taken into the company after the dinner was over , and held up by my sister Jane to sing a verse from a little song which my nurse Mary Peterkin had taught me , and Which ran thus : " I 'll no bide till Saturday , But I 'll awa ' tile morn , An ' follow Donald Hielandman , An ' carry his poother-horn . " This was my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great applause . In fact , it was encored . The word " poother , " which I pronounced " pootle " , excited the enthusiasm of the audience . I was then sent to bed with a bit of plum-cake , and was doubtless awakened early next morning by the irritation of the dried crumbs of the previous night 's feast . I am reminded , by reading over a letter of my brother Patrick 's , of an awkward circumstance that happened to me when I was six years old . In his letter to my father , dated London , 22d September 1814 , he says : " I did get a surprise when Margaret 's letter informed me of my little brother Jamie 's fall . It was a wonderful escape . For God 's sake keep an eye upon him ! " Like other strong and healthy boys , I had a turn for amusing myself in my own way . When sliding down the railing of the stairs I lost my grip and fell suddenly over . The steps were of stone . Fortunately , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had been beating . I fell into their midst and knocked them out of their hands . I was thus saved from cracking my poor little skull . But for that there might have been no steam hammer  --  at least of my contrivance ! Everything connected with war and warlike exploits is interesting to a boy . The war with France was then in full progress . Troops and bands paraded the streets . Recruits were sent away as fast as they could be drilled . The whole air was filled with war . Everybody was full of excitement about the progress of events in Spain . When the great guns boomed forth from the Castle , the people were first startled . Then they were surprised and anxious . There had been a battle and a victory ! " Who had fallen ? " was the first thought in many minds . Where had the battle been , and what was the victory ? Business was suspended . People rushed about the streets to ascertain the facts . It might have been at Salamanca , Talavera , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be received ; and during that time sad suspense and anxiety prevailed in almost every household . There was no telegraph then . It was only after the Gazette had been published that people knew who had fallen and who had survived . The war proceeded . The volunteering which went on at the time gave quite a military aspect to the city . I remember how odd it appeared to me to see some well-known faces and figures metamorphosed into soldiers It was considered a test of loyalty as well as of patriotism , to give time , money , and leisure to take up the arms of defence , and to practise daily in military uniform in the Meadows or on Bruntsfield Links . Windows were thrown up to hear the bands playing at the head of the troops , and crowds of boys , full of military ardour , went , as usual , hand to hand in front of the drums and fifes . The most interesting part of the procession to my mind was the pioneers in front , with their leather aprons , their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beards . They were to me so suggestive of clearing the way through hedges and forests , and of what war was in its actual progress . Every victory was followed by the importation of large numbers of French prisoners . Many of them were sent to Edinburgh Castle . They were permitted to relieve the tedium of their confinement by manufacturing and selling toys ; workboxes , brooches , and carved work of different kinds . In the construction of these they exhibited great skill , taste , and judgment . They carved them out of bits of bone and wood . The patterns were most beautiful ; and they were ingeniously and tastefully ornamented . The articles were to be had for a mere trifle , although fit to be placed with the most choice objects of artistic skill . These poor prisoners of war were allowed to work at their tasteful handicrafts in small sheds or temporary workshops at the Castle , behind the palisades which separated them from their free customers outside . There was just room between the bars of the palisades for them to hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the modest prices which they charged . The front of these palisades became a favourite resort for the inhabitants of Edinburgh ; and especially for the young folks . I well remember being impressed with the contrast between the almost savage aspect of these dark-haired foreigners , and the neat and delicate produce of their skilful fingers . At the peace of 1814 , which followed the siege of Paris , great rejoicings and illuminations took place , in the belief that the war was at an end . The French prisoners were sent back to their own country , alas ! to appear again before us at Waterloo . The liberation of those confined in Edinburgh Castle was accompanied by an extraordinary scene . The French prisoners marched down to the transport ships at Leith by torchlight . All the town was out to see them . They passed in military procession through the principal streets , singing as they marched along their revolutionary airs , " Ca lra " and " The Marseillaise . " The wild enthusiasm of these haggard-looking men , lit up by torchlight and accompanied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets and filled the windows , made an impression on my mind that I can never forget . A year passed . Napoleon returned from Elba , and was rejoined by nearly all his old fighting-men . I well remember , young as I was , an assembly of the inhabitants of Edinburgh in Charlotte Square , to bid farewell to the troops and officers then in garrison . It was a fine summer evening when this sad meeting took place . The bands were playing as their last performance , " Go where glory waits thee ! " The air brought tears to many eyes ; for many who were in the ranks might never return . After many a hand-shaking , the troops marched to the Castle , previous to their early embarkation for the Low Countries on the following morning . Then came Waterloo and the victory ! The Castle guns boomed forth again ; and the streets were filled with people anxious to hear the news . At last came the Gazette filled with the details of the killed and wounded . Many a heart was broken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indeed a sad time . The terrible anxiety that pervaded so many families ; the dreadful sacrifice of lives on so many battlefields ; and the enormously increased taxation , which caused so many families to stint themselves to even the barest necessaries of life ;  --  such was the inglorious side of war . But there was also the glory , which almost compensated for the sorrow . I can not resist narrating the entry of the Forty-second Regiment into Edinburgh shortly after the battle of Waterloo . The old " Black Watch " is a regiment dear to every Scottish heart . It has fought and struggled when resistance was almost certain death . At Quatre Bras two flank companies were cut to pieces by Pire 's cavalry . The rest of the regiment was assailed by Reille 's furious cannonade , and suffered severely . The French were beaten back , and the remnant of the Forty-second retired to Waterloo , where they formed part of the brigade under Major-General Pack . At the first grand charge of the French , Picton fell and many were killed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Highland regiments rushed forward , with cries of " Scotland for ever ! " Only a remnant of the Forty-second survived . They were however recruited , and marched into France with the rest of the army . Towards the end of the year the Forty-Second returned to England , and in the beginning of 1816 they set out on their march towards Edinburgh . They were everywhere welcomed with enthusiasm . Crowds turned out to meet them and cheer them . When the first division of the regiment approached Edinburgh , almost the entire population turned out to welcome them . At Musselburgh , six miles off ; the road was thronged with people . When the soldiers reached Piershill , two miles off , the road was so crowded that it took them two hours to reach the Castle . I was on a balcony in the upper part of the High Street , and my father , mother , and sisters were with me . We had waited very long ; but at last we heard the distant sound of the cheers , which came on and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wedged with people excited and anxious . There seemed scarcely room for a regiment to march through them . The house-tops and windows were crowded with spectators . It was a grand sight . The high-gabled houses reaching as far as the eye could see , St. Giles ' with its mural crown , the Tron Kirk in the distance , and the picturesque details of the buildings , all added to the effectiveness of the scene . At last the head of the gallant band appeared . The red coats gradually wedged their way through the crowd , amidst the ringing of bells and the cheers of the spectators . Every window was in a wave of gladness , and every house-top was in a fever of excitement . As the red line passed our balcony , with Colonel Dick at its head , we saw a sight that can never be forgotten . The red-and-white plumes , the tattered colours riddled with bullets , the glittering bayonets , were seen amidst the crowd that thronged round the gallant heroes , amidst tears and cheers and hand-shakings and shouts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body moving slowly along ; the soldiers being almost hidden amongst the crowd . At last they passed , the pipers and drums playing a Highland march ; and the Forty-Second slowly entered the Castle . It was perhaps the most extraordinary scene ever witnessed in Edinburgh . One of my greatest enjoyments when a child was in going out with the servants to the Calton , and wait while the " claes " bleached in the sun on the grassy slopes of the hill . The air was bright and fresh and pure . The lasses regarded these occasions as a sort of holiday . One or two of the children usually accompanied them . They sat together , and the servants told us their auld-warld stories ; common enough in those days , but which have now , in a measure , been forgotten . " Steam " and " progress " have made the world much less youthful and joyous than it was then . The women brought their work and their needles with them , and when they had told their stories , the children ran about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wild thyme . They ran after the butterflies and the bumbees , and made acquaintance in a small way with the beauties of nature . Then the servants opened their baskets of provisions , and we had a delightful picnic . Though I am now writing about seventy years after the date of these events , I can almost believe that I am enjoying the delightful perfume of the wild thyme and the fragrant plants and flowers , wafted around me by the warm breezes of the Calton hillside . In the days I refer to , there was always a most cheerful and intimate intercourse kept up between the children and the servants . They were members of the same family , and were treated as such . The servants were for the most part country-bred  --  daughters of farm servants or small farmers . They were fairly educated at their parish schools ; they could read and write , and had an abundant store of old recollections . Many a pleasant crack we had with them as to their native places , their families , and all that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their masters and mistresses , as well as to the children . All this led to true attachment ; and when they left ; us , for the most part to be married we continued to keep up a correspondence with them , which lasted for many years . While enjoying these delightful holidays , before my school-days began , my practical education was in progress , especially in the way of acquaintance with the habits of nature in a vast variety of its phases , always so attractive to the minds of healthy children . It happened that close to the Calton Hill , in the valley at its northern side , there were many workshops where interesting trades were carried on ; there were coppersmiths , tinsmiths , brass-founders , goldbeaters , and blacksmiths . Their shops were all arranged in a busy group at the foot of the hill , in a place called Greenside . The workshops were open to the inspection of passers-by . Little boys looked in and saw the men at work amidst the blaze of fires and the beatings of hammers . Amongst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost say that this row of busy workshops was my first school of practical education . I observed the mechanical manipulation of the men , their dexterous use of the hammer , the chisel , and the file ; and I imbibed many lessons which afterwards proved of use to me . Then I had tools at home in my father 's workshop . I tried to follow their methods ; I became greatly interested in the use of tools and their appliances ; I could make things for myself . In short , I became so skilled that the people about the house called me " a little Jack-of-all-trades . " While sitting on the grassy slopes of the Calton Hill I would often hear the chimes sounding from the grand old tower of St.Giles . The cathedral lay on the other side of the valley which divides the Old Town from the New . The sounds came over the murmur of the traffic in the streets below . The chime-bells were played every day from twelve till one  --  the old-fashioned dinner-hour of the citizens . The practice had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . The pleasing effect of the merry airs , which came wafted tome by the warm summer breezes , made me long to see them as well as hear them . Image Mural crown of St Giles ' , Edinburgh My father was always anxious to give pleasure to his children . Accordingly , he took me one day , as a special treat , to the top of the grand old tower , to see the chimes played . As we passed up the tower , a strong vaulted room was pointed out to me , where the witches used to be imprisoned . I was told that the poor old women were often taken down from this dark vault to be burnt alive ! Such terrible tales enveloped the tower with a horrible fascination to my young mind . What a fearful contrast to the merry sound of the chimes issuing from its roof on a bright summer day . On my way up to the top flat , where the chimes were played , I had to pass through the vault in which the great pendulum was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great ancient clock was keeping time with its sudden and startling movement . The whole scene was almost as uncanny as the witches ' cell underneath . There was also a wild rumbling thumping sound overhead . I soon discovered the cause of this , when I entered the flat where the musician was at work . He was seen in violent action , beating or hammering on the keys of a gigantic pianoforte-like apparatus . The instruments he used were two great leather-faced mallets , one of which he held in each hand . Each key was connected by iron rods with the chime-bells above . The frantic and mad-like movements of the musician , as he energetically rushed from one key to another , often widely apart gave me the idea that the man was daft  --  especially as the noise of the mallets was such that I heard no music emitted from the chimes so far overhead . It was only when I had climbed up the stair of the tower to where the bells were rung that I understood the performance , and comprehended the beating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I heard them at a distance . Another source of enjoyment in my early days was to accompany my mother to the market . As I have said before , my mother , though generous in her hospitality , was necessarily thrifty and economical in the management of her household . There were no less than fourteen persons in the house to be fed , and this required a good deal of marketing . At the time I refer to , ( about 1816 , it was the practice of every lady who took pride in managing economically the home department of her husband 's affairs , to go to market in person . The principal markets in Edinburgh were then situated in the valley between the Old and New Towns , in what used to be called the Nor Loch . Dealers in fish and vegetables had their stalls there : the market for butcher meat was near at hand : each being in their several locations . It was a very lively and bustling sight to see the marketing going on . When a lady was observed approaching , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrounded by the " caddies . " They were a set of sturdy hard-working women , each with a creel on her back . Their competition for the employer sometimes took a rather energetic form . The rival candidates pointed to her with violent exclamations ; " She 's my ledie ! she 's my ledie ! " ejaculated one and all . To dispel the disorder , a selection of one of the caddies would be made , and then all was quiet again until another customer appeared . There was a regular order in which the purchases were deposited in the creel . First , there came the fish , which were carefully deposited in the lowest part , with a clean deal board over them . The fishwives were a most sturdy and independent class , both in manners and language . When at home , at Newhaven or Fisherrow , they made and mended their husbands ' nets , put their fishing tackle to rights , and when the fishing boats came in they took the fish to market at Edinburgh . To see the groups of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their backs , clothed in their remarkable costume , with their striped petticoats kilted up and showing their sturdy legs , was indeed a remarkable sight . They were cheerful and good-natured , but very outspoken . Their skins were clear and ruddy , and many of the young fishwives were handsome and pretty . They were , in fact , the incarnation of robust health . In dealing with them at the Fish Market there was a good deal of higgling . They often asked two or three times more than the fish were worth  --  at least , according to the then market price . After a stormy night , during which the husbands and sons had toiled to catch the fish , on the usual question being asked , " Weel , Janet , hoo 's haddies the day ! " " Haddies , mem ? Ou , haddies is men 's lives the day ! " which was often true , as haddocks were often caught at the risk of their husbands ' lives . After the usual amount of higgling , the haddies were brought down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a good haddock , or , when herrings were rife , a dozen herrings for twopence , crabs for a penny , and lobsters for threepence . For there were no railways then to convey the fish to England , and thus equalise the price for all classes of the community . Let me mention here a controversy between a fishwife and a buyer called Thomson . the buyer offered a price so ridiculously small for a parcel of fish that the seller became quite indignant , and she terminated at once all further higgling . Looking up to him , she said , " Lord help yer e'e-sight , Maister Tamson ! " " Lord help my e'e-sight , woman ! What has that to do with it ? " " Ou , " said she , " because ye ha'e nae nose to put spectacles on ! " As it happened , poor Mr. Thomson had , by some accident or disease , so little of a nose left , if any at all , that the bridge of the nose for holding up the spectacles was almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her niggardly customer . When my mother had got her fish laid at the bottom of the creel , she next went to the " flesher " for her butcher-meat . There was no higgling here , for the meat was sold at the ordinary market price . Then came the poultry stratum ; then the vegetables , or fruits in their season ; and , finally , there was " the floore "  --  a bunch of flowers ; not a costly bouquet , but a , large assortment of wallflowers , daffodils ( with their early spring fragrance ) , polyanthuses , lilacs , gilly-flowers , and the glorious old-fashioned cabbage rose , as well as the even more gloriously fragrant moss rose . The caddy 's creel was then topped up , and the marketing was completed . The lady was followed home ; the contents were placed in the larder ; and the flowers distributed all over the house . I have many curious traditional evidences of the great fondness for cats which distinguished the Nasmyth family for several generations . My father had always one or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best sense , his " familiars . " Their quiet , companionable habits rendered them very acceptable company when engaged in his artistic work . I know of no sound so pleasantly tranquillising as the purring of a cat , or of anything more worthy of admiration in animal habit as the neat , compact , and elegant manner in which the cat adjusts itself at the fireside , or in a snug , cosy place , when it settles down for a long quiet sleep . Every spare moment that a cat has before lying down to rest is occupied in carefully cleaning itself , even under adverse circumstances . The cat is the true original inventor of a sanitary process , which has lately been patented and paraded before the public as a sanitary novelty ; and yet it has been in practice ever since cats were created . Would that men and women were more alive to habitual cleanliness  --  even the cleanliness of cats . The kindly and gentle animal gives us all a lesson in these respects . Then , nothing can be more beautiful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which the cat exerts the exact amount of effort requisite to land it at the height and spot it wishes to reach at one bound . The neat and delicately precise manner in which cats use their paws when playing with those who habitually treat them with gentle kindness is truly admirable . In these respects cats are entitled to the most kindly regard . There are , unfortunately , many who entertain a strong prejudice against this most perfect and beautiful member of the animal creation , and who abuse them because they resist ill-treatment , occasioned by their innate feeling of independence . Cats have no doubt less personal attachment than dogs , but when kindly treated they become in many respects attached and affectionate animals . My father , when a boy , made occasional visits to Hamilton , in the West of Scotland , where the descendants of his Covenanting ancestors still lived . One of them was an old bachelor  --  a recluse sort of man ; and yet he had the Nasmyth love of cats . Being of pious pedigree and habits , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . My father and his companions used to go to the door of his house to listen to him , but especially to hear his culminating finale . He prayed that the Lord would help him to forgive his enemies and all those who had done him injury ; and then , with a loud burst , he concluded , " Except John Anderson o ' the Toonhead , for he killed my cat , and him I 'll ne'er forgie ! In conclusion , I may again refer to Elspeth Nasmyth , who was burnt alive for witchcraft , because she had four black cats , and read her Bible through two Pairs of spectacles ! CHAPTER 5 . My School-days . Before I went to school it was my good fortune to be placed under the special care of my eldest sister , Jane . She was twenty years older than myself , and had acquired much practical experience in the management of the younger members of the family . I could not have had a more careful teacher . She initiated me into the difficulties of A B @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me a key to the thoughts of the greatest thinkers who have ever lived . But all this was accomplished at first in a humdrum and tentative way . About seventy years ago children 's books were very uninteresting . In the little stories manufactured for children , the good boy ended in a Coach-and-four , and the bad boy in a ride to Tyburn . The good boys must have been a set of little snobs and prigs , and I could scarcely imagine that they could ever have lived as they were represented in these goody books . If so , they must have been the most tiresome and uninteresting vermin that can possibly be imagined . After my sister had done what she could for me , I was sent to school to learn " English . " I was placed under the tuition of a leading teacher called Knight , whose school-room was in the upper storey of a house in George Street . Here I learned to read with ease . But my primitive habit of spelling by ear , in accordance with the simple sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speak ) brought me into collision with my teacher . I got many a cuff on the side of the head , and many a " palmy " on my hands with a thick strap of hard leather , which did not give me very inviting views as to the pleasures of learning . The master was vicious and vindictive . I think it a cowardly way to deal with a little boy in so cruel a manner , and to send him home with his back and fingers tingling and sometimes bleeding , because he can not learn so quickly as his fellows . On one occasion Knight got out of temper with my stupidity or dulness in not comprehending something about ' a preter-pluperfect tense , ' or some mystery of that sort . He seized me by the ears , and beat my head against the wall behind me with such savage violence that when he let me go , stunned and unable to stand , I fell forward on the floor bleeding violently at the nose , and with a terrific headache . The wretch might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home and put to bed , where I lay helpless for more than a week . My father threatened to summon the teacher before the magistrates for what might have been a fatal assault on poor little me ; but on making a humble apology for his brutal usage he was let off . Of course I was not sent back to his school . I have ever since entertained a hatred against grammatical rules . There was at that time an excellent system of teaching young folks the value of thrift . This consisted in saving for some purpose or another the Saturdays penny  --  one penny being our weekly allowance of pocket-money . The feats we could perform in the way of procuring toys , picture-books , or the materials for constructing flying kites , would amaze the youngsters of the present day , who are generally spoiled by extravagance . And yet we obtained far more pleasure from our purchases . We had in my time " penny pigs , " or thrift boxes . They were made in a vase form , of brown glazed earthenware , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give entrance to a penny . When the Saturday 's penny was not required for any immediate purposes , it was dropped through the slit , and remained there until the box was full . The maximum of pennies it could contain was about forty-eight . When that was accomplished , the penny pig was broken with a hammer , and its rich contents flowed forth . The breaking of the pig was quite an event . The fine fat old George the Third penny pieces looked thoroughly substantial in our eyes . And then there was the spending of the money ,  --  for some long-looked-for toy , or pencils , or book , or painting materials . One of the ways in which I used my Saturday pennies was in going with some of my companions into the country to have a picnic . We used to light a fire behind a hedge or a dyke , or in the corner of some ruin , and there roast our potatoes , or broil a red herring on an extempore gridiron we contrived for the purpose . We lit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tinder-box , which in those days every boy used to possess . The bramble-berries gave us our dessert . We thoroughly enjoyed these glorious Saturday afternoons . It gave us quite a Robinson Crusoe sort of feeling to be thus secluded from the world . Then the beauty of the scenery amidst which we took our repast was such as I can not attempt to describe . A walk of an hour or so would bring us into the presence of an old castle , or amongst the rocky furze and heather-clad hills , amidst clear rapid streams , so that , but for the distant peeps of the city , one might think that he was far from the busy haunts of men and boys . To return to my school-days . Shortly after I left the school in George Street , where the schoolmaster had almost split my skull in battering it upon the wall behind me , I was entered as a pupil at the Edinburgh High School , in October 1817 . The school was situated near the old Infirmary . Professor Pillans was the rector @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set to study Latin under Mr. Irvine . He was a mere schoolmaster in the narrowest sense of the term . He was not endowed with the best of tempers , and it was often put to the breaking strain by the tricks and negligence of the lower-form portion of his class . It consisted of nearly two hundred boys ; the other three masters had about the same number of scholars . They each had a separate class-room . I began to learn the elementary rudiments of Latin grammar . But not having any natural aptitude for aquiring classic learning so called , I fear I made but little progress during the three years that I remained at the High School . Had the master explained to us how nearly allied many of the Latin and Greek roots were to our familiar English words , I feel assured that so interesting and valuable a department of instruction would not have been neglected . But our memories were strained by being made to say off " by heart , " as it was absurdly called , whole batches of grammatical rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So far as I was concerned , I derived little benefit from my High School teaching , except that I derived one lesson which is of great use in after life . I mean as regards the performance of duty . I did my tasks punctually and cheerfully , though they were far from agreeable . This is an exercise in early life that is very useful in later years . In my walks to and from the High School , the usual way was along the North and South Bridges ,  --  the first over the Nor ' Loch , now the railway station , and the second over the Cowgate . That was the main street between the Old Town and the New . But there were numerous wynds and closes ( as the narrow streets are called ) which led down from the High Street and the upper part of the Canongate to the High School , through which I often preferred to wander . So long as Old Edinburgh was confined within its walls the nobles lived in those narrow streets ; and the Old houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out these houses to me , and I loved to keep up my recollections . I must have had a little of the antiquarian spirit even then . I got to know the most remarkable of those ancient houses  --  many of which were distinguished by the inscriptions on the lintel of the entrance , as well as the arms of the former possessors . Some had mottoes such as this : " BLESIT BE GOD AND HYS GIFTIS. 1584 . " There was often a tower-shaped projection from the main front of the house , up which a spiral stair proceeded . This is usually a feature in old Scotch buildings . But in these closes the entrance to the houses was through a ponderous door , studded with great broad-headed nails , with loopholes at each side of the door , as if to present the strongest possible resistance to any attempt at forcible entrance . Indeed , in the old times before the Union the nobles were often as strong as the King , and many a time the High Street was reddened by the blood of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a cry of " A Naesmyth , " " A Scott , " in the High Street . It was followed by a clash of arms , and two of Sir Michael Naesmyth 's sons were killed in that bloody feud . Edinburgh was often the scene of such disasters . Hence the strengthening of their houses , so as to resist the inroads of feudal enemies . Image Doorhead , from an old mansion The mason-work of the doors was executed with great care and dexterity . It was chamfered at the edges in a bold manner , and ornamented with an O.G . bordering , which had a fine effect while it rendered the entrance more pleasant by the absence of sharp angles . The same style of ornamentation was generally found round the edges of the stone-work of the windows , most commonly by chamfering off the square angle of the stone-work . This not only added a grim grace to the appearance of the windows , but allowed a more free entrance of light into the apartments , while it permitted the inmates to have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gloomy-looking mansions were grim in a terrible sense , and they reminded one of the fearful transactions of " the good old times ! " On many occasions , when I was taking a daunder through these historic houses in the wynds and closes of the Old Town , I have met Sir Walter Scott showing them to his visitors , and listened to his deep , earnest voice while narrating to them some terrible incident in regard to their former inhabitants . On other occasions I have frequently met Sir Walter sturdily limping along over the North Bridge , while on his way from the Court of Session ( where he acted as Clerk of the Records ) to his house in Castle Street . In the same way I saw most of the public characters connected with the Law Courts or the University . Sir Waiter was easily distinguished by his height , as well as his limp or halt in his walk . My father was intimate with most , if not all , of the remarkable Edinburgh characters , and when I had the pleasure of accompanying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hear them in the conversations that took place . I remember , when I was with my father in one of his walks , that a young English artist accompanied us . He had come across the Border to be married at Gretna Green , and he brought his bride onward to Edinburgh . My father wished to show him some of the most remarkable old buildings of the town . It was about the end of 1817 , when one of the most interesting buildings in Edinburgh was about to be demolished . This was no less a place than the Old Tolbooth in the High Street ,  --  a grand but gloomy old building . It had been originally used as the city palace of the Scottish kings . There they held their councils and dispensed justice . But in course of time the King and Court abandoned the place , and it had sunk into a gaol or prison for the most abandoned of malefactors . After their trial the prisoners were kept there waiting for execution , and they were hanged on a flat-roofed portion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tolbooth , Edinburgh . By Alexander Nasmyth . From the drawing in the possession of lord Inglis , Lord Justice-General . At one of the strongest parts of the building a strong oak chest , iron-plated , had been built in , held fast by a thick wall of stone and mortar on each side . The iron chest measured about nine feet square , and was closed by a strong iron door with heavy bolts and locks . This was the Heart of Midlothian , the condemned cell of the Tolbooth. * footnote ... Long after the condemned cell had been pulled down , an English Chartist went down to Edinburgh to address a large meeting of his brother politicians . He began by addressing them as " Men of the Heart of Midlothian ! " There was a loud guffaw throughout the audience . He addressed them as if they were a body of condemned malefactors . ... The iron chest was so heavy that the large body of workmen could not , with all their might , pull it out . After stripping it of its masonry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the street . At last , with a " Yo ! heave ho ! " it fell down with a mighty crash . The iron chest was so strong that it held together , and only the narrow iron door , with its locks , bolts , and bars , was burst open , and jerked off amongst the bystanders . It was quite a scene . A large crowd had assembled , and amongst them was Sir Walter Scott . Recognising my father , he stood by him , while both awaited the ponderous crash . Sir Walter was still the Great Unknown . When his Heart of Midlothian was published in the course of the following year , it was pretty well known that he was the author of that fascinating novel . Sir Waiter got the door and the key , as relics , for his house at Abbotsford . There was a rush of people towards the iron chest to look into the dark interior of that veritable chamber of horrors . My father 's artist friend went forward with the rest , and endeavoured to pick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the clouds of dust had been dispersed , he observed , under the place where the iron box had stood , a number of skeletons of rats , as dry as mummies . He selected one of these , * footnote ... I was so much impressed with the events of the day , and also with the fact of the young artist having taken with him so repulsive a memento as a rat 's skeleton , that I never forgot it . More than half century later , when I was at a private view of the Royal Academy , I saw sitting on one of the sofas a remarkable and venerable-looking old gentleman . On inquiring of my friend Thomas Webster who he was , he answered , " Why , that 's old Linnell ! " I then took the liberty of sitting down beside him , and , apologising for my intrusion on his notice , I said it was just fifty-seven years since I had last seen him ! I mentioned the circumstance of the rat-skeleton which he had put in his pocket at Edinburgh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so vividly recalled to his mind . At last he said , " Well , I have that mummy rat , the relic of the Heart of Midlothian , safe in a cabinet of curiosities in my house at Redhill to this day . " ... wrapped it in a newspaper and put it in his pocket as a recollection of his first day in Edinburgh , and of the final destruction of the " Heart of Midlothian . " This artist was no other than John Linnell , the afterwards famous landscape painter . He was then a young and unknown man . He brought a letter of introduction to my father . He also brought a landscape as a specimen of his young efforts , and it was so splendidly done that my father augured a brilliant career for this admirable artist . I had the pleasure of seeing Sir Waiter Scott on another and , to me , a very memorable occasion . From an early period of my schoolboy days I had a great regard for every object that had reference to bygone times . They influenced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visions of the people of olden days . It did not matter whether it was an old coin or an old castle . took pleasure in rambling about the old castles near Edinburgh , many of them connected with the times of Mary Queen of Scots . Craigmillar Castle was within a few miles of the city ; there was also Crighton Castle , and above all Borthwick Castle . This grand massive old ruin left a deep impression on my mind . The sight of its gloomy interior , with the great hall lighted up only by stray glints of sunshine , as if struggling for access through the small deep-seated windows in its massive walls , together with its connection with the life and times of Queen Mary , had a far greater influence upon my mind than I experienced while standing amidst the Coliseum at Rome . Like many earnest-minded boys , I had a severe attack at the right time of life , say from 12 to 15 , of what I would call " the collecting period . " This consisted , in my case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salutary forms of this youthful passion . I made exchanges with my school companions . Sometimes my father 's friends , seeing my anxiety to improve my collection gave me choice specimens of bronze and other coins of the Roman emperors , usually duplicates from their own collection . These coins had the effect of promoting my knowledge of Roman history . I read up in order to find out the acts and deeds of the old rulers of the civilised world . Besides collecting the coins , I used to make careful drawings of the obverse and reverse faces of each in an illustrated catalogue which I kept in my little coin cabinet . I remember one day , when sitting beside my father making a very careful drawing of a fine bronze coin of Augustus , that Sir Walter Scott entered the room . He frequently called upon my father in order to consult him with respect to his architectural arrangements . Sir Walter caught sight of me , and came forward to look over the work I was engaged in . At his request I had the pleasure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after which he took out of his waistcoat pocket a beautiful silver coin of the reign of Mary Queen of Scots , and gave it to me as being his " young brother antiquarian . " I shall never forget the kind fatherly way in which he presented it . I considered it a great honour to be spoken to in so friendly a way by such a man ; besides , it vastly enriched my little collection of coins and medals . It was in the year 1817 that I had the pleasure , never to be forgotten , of seeing the great engineer , James Watt . He was then close upon his eighty-second year . His visit to Edinburgh was welcomed by the most distinguished scientific and literary men of the city . My father had the honour of meeting him at a dinner given by the Earl of Buchan , at his residence in George Street . There were present , Sir James Hall , President of the Royal Society ; Francis Jeffrey , Editor of the Edinburgh Review ; Walter Scott , still the Great Unknown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man delighted them with his kindly talk , as well as astonished them with the extent and profundity of his information . On the following day Mr. Watt paid my father a visit he carefully examined his artistic and other works . Having inspected with great pleasure some landscape paintings of various scenes in Scotland executed by my sisters , who were then highly efficient artists , he purchased a specimen of each , as well as three landscapes painted by my father , as a record of his pleasant visit to the capital of his native country . I well remember the sight I then got of the Great Engineer . I had just returned from the High School when he was leaving my father 's house . It was but a glimpse I had of him . But his benevolent countenance and his tall but bent figure made an impression on my mind that I can never forget . It was even something to have seen for a few seconds so truly great and noble a man . I did not long continue my passion for the collection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I have a most cherished and grateful remembrance of the happy hours and days that I spent in my father 's workroom . When the weather was cold or wet , he took refuge with his lathe and tools , and there I followed and watched him . He took the greatest pleasure in instructing me . Even in the most humble mechanical job he was sure to direct my attention to the action of the tools and to the construction of the work he had in hand , and pointed out the manipulative processes requisite for its being effectually carried out . My hearty zeal in assisting him was well rewarded by his implanting in my mind the great fundamental principles on which the practice of engineering in its grandest forms is based . But I did not learn this all at once . It came only gradually , and by dint of constant repetition and inculcation . In the meantime I made a beginning by doing some little mechanical work on my own account . While attending the High School , from 1817 to 1820 , there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and " young cannon . " By means of my father 's excellent foot-lathe I turned out the spinning-tops in capital style , so much so that I be came quite noted amongst my school companions . They all wanted to have specimens of my productions . They would give any price for them . The peeries were turned with perfect accuracy , and the steel shod , or spinning pivot , was centred so as to correspond exactly with the axis of the top . They could spin twice as long as the bought peeries . When at full speed they would " sleep , " that is , revolve without the slightest waving . This was considered high art as regarded top-spinning . Flying-kites and tissue paper balloons were articles that I was somewhat famed for producing . There was a good deal of special skill required for the production of a flying-kite . It must be perfectly still and steady when at its highest flight in the air . Paper messengers were sent up to it along the string which held it to the ground . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place for enjoying this pleasant amusement . Another article for which I became equally famous was the manufacture of small brass cannon . These I cast and bored , and mounted on their appropriate gun-carriages . They proved very effective , especially in the loudness of the report when fired . I also converted large cellar-keys into a sort of hand-cannon . A touch-hole was bored into the barrel of the key , with a sliding brass collar that allowed the key-guns to be loaded and primed and ready for firing . The principal occasion on which the brass cannon and hand-guns were used was on the 4th of June  --  King George the Thirds birthday . This was always celebrated with exuberant and noisy loyalty . The guns of the Castle were fired at noon , and the number of shots corresponded with the number of years that the king had reigned . The grand old Castle was enveloped in smoke , and the discharges reverberated along the streets and among the surrounding hills . Everything was in holiday order . The coaches were hung with garlands , the shops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the citizens drank the king 's health at the Gross , throwing the glasses over their shoulders . The boys fired off gunpowder , or threw squibs or crackers from morning till night . It was one of the greatest schoolboy events of the year . My little brass cannon and hand-guns were very busy during that day . They were fired until they became quite hot . These were the pre-lucifer days . The fire to light the powder at the touch-hole was obtained by the use of a flint , a steel , and a tinder-box . The flint was struck sharply on the steel ; a spark of fire fell into the tinderbox , and the match of hemp string , soaked in saltpetre , was readily lit , and fired off the little guns . I carried on quite a trade in forging beautiful little steels . I forged them out of old files , which proved excellent material for the purpose . I filed them up into neat and correct forms , and then hardened and tempered them , secundum artem , at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course there were also a suitable anvil , hammer , and tongs . I often made potent use of these steels in escaping from the ordeal of some severe task imposed upon me at school . The schoolmaster often deputed his authority to the monitors to hear us say our lessons . But when I slyly exhibited a beautiful steel the monitor could not maintain his grim sense of duty , and he often let me escape the ordeal of repeating some passage from a Latin school-book by obtaining possession of the article . I thus bought myself off . This system of bribery and corruption was no doubt shockingly improper , but as I was not naturally endowed with the taste for learning Latin and Greek , I continued my little diplomatic tricks until I left school . As I have said , I did not learn much at the High School . My mind was never opened up by what was taught me there . It was a mere matter of rote and cram . I learnt by heart a number of Latin rules and phrases , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young mind was tormented by the tasks set before me . At the same time my hungry mind thirsted for knowledge of another kind . There was one thing , however , that I did learn at the High School . That was the blessings and advantages of friendship . There were several of my schoolfellows of a like disposition with myself , with whom I formed attachments which ended only with life . I may mention two of them in particular  --  Jemmy Patterson and Tom Smith . The former was the son of one of the largest iron founders in Edinburgh . He was kind , good , and intelligent . He and I were great cronies . He took me to his father 's workshops . Nothing could have been more agreeable to my tastes . For there I saw how iron castings were made . Mill-work and steam-engines were repaired there , and I could see the way in which power was produced and communicated . To me it was a most instructive school of practical mechanics . Although I was only about thirteen at the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which hearty zeal made up for want of strength . I look back to these days , especially to the Saturday afternoons spent in the workshops of this admirably conducted iron foundry , as a most important part of my education as a mechanical engineer . I did not read about such things ; for words were of little use . But I saw and handled , and thus all the ideas in connection with them became permanently rooted in my mind . Each department of the iron foundry was superintended by an able and intelligent man , who was distinguished not only by his ability but for his steadiness and sobriety . The men were for the most part promoted to their fore-manship from the ranks , and had been brought up in the workshop from their boyhood . They possessed a strong individuality of character , and served their employer faithfully and loyally . One of these excellent men , with whom I was frequently brought into contact , was William Watson . He took special charge of all that related to the construction and repairs of steam-engines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skilful designer and draughtsman , and an excellent pattern maker . His designs were drawn in a bold and distinct style , on large deal boards , and were passed into the hands of the mechanics to be translated by them into actual work . It was no small privilege to me to stand by , and now and then hold the end of the long straight edge , or by some humble but zealous genuine help of mine contribute to the progress of these substantial and most effective mechanical drawings . Watson explained to me , in the most common-sense manner , his reasons for the various forms , arrangements , and proportions of the details of his designs . He was an enthusiast on the subject of Euclid ; and to see the beautiful problems applied by him in working out his excellent drawings was to me a lesson beyond all price . Watson was effectively assisted by his two sons , who carried out their father 's designs in constructing the wood patterns after which the foundry-men or moulders reproduced their forms in cast iron , while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sons of Mr. Watson were of that special class of workmen called millwrights  - -  a class now almost extinct , though many of the best known engineers originally belonged to them . They could work with equal effectiveness in wood or iron . Another foreman in Mr. Patterson 's foundry was called Lewis . He had special charge of the iron castings designed for architectural and ornamental purposes . He was a man of great taste and artistic feeling , and I was able even at that time to appreciate the beauty of his designs . One of the most original characters about the foundry , however , was Johnie Syme . He took charge of the old Boulton and Watt steam-engine , which gave motion to the machinery of the works . It also produced the blast for the Cupolas , in which the pig and cast iron scrap was daily melted and cast into the various objects produced in the foundry . Johnie was a complete incarnation of technical knowledge . He was the Jack-of-all-trades of the establishment ; and the standing counsel in every out-of-the-way case of managing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boring machines . In those days the boring of a steam-engine cylinder was considered high art in excelsis ! Patterson 's firm was celebrated for the accuracy of its boring . I owe Johnie Syme a special debt of gratitude , as it was he who first initiated me into that most important of all technical processes in practical mechanism  --  the art of hardening and temperinq steel . It is , perhaps , not saying too much to assert that the successful practice of the mechanical arts , by means of which man rises from the savage to the civilised state , is due to that wonderful change . Man began with wood , and stone , and bone ; he proceeded to bronze and iron ; but it was only by means of hardened steel that he could accomplish anything in arms , in agriculture , or in architecture . The instant hardening which occurs on plunging a red-hot piece of steel into cold water may well be described as mysterious . Even in these days , when science has defined the causes of so many phenomena , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a red-heat , is a fact that no one has yet explained . The steel may be tempered by modifying the degree of heat to which it is afterwards subjected . It may thus be toughened by slightly reheating the hardened steel ; the resoftening course is indicated by certain prismatic tints , which appear in a peculiar order of succession on its surface . The skilful artisan thus knows by experience the exact point at which it is necessary again to plunge it into cold water in order to secure the requisite combination of toughness and hardness to the steel required for his purposes . In all these matters , my early instructor , Johnie Syme , gave me such information as proved of the greatest use to me in the after progress of my mechanical career . Johnie Syme was also the very incarnation of quaint sly humour ; and when communicating some of his most valued arcana of practical mechanical knowledge he always reminded me of some of Ostade 's Dutchmen , by an almost indescribable sly humorous twinkle of the eye , which in that droll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was another of my attached cronies . Our friendship began at the High School in 1818 . Our similarity of disposition bound us together . Smith was the son of an enterprising general merchant at Leith . His father had a special genius for practical chemistry . He had established an extensive colour manufactory at Portobello , near Edinburgh , where he produced white lead , red lead , and a great variety of colours  --  in the preparation of which he required a thorough knowledge of chemistry.Tom Smith inherited his father 's tastes , and admitted me to share in his experiments , which were carried on in a chemical laboratory situated behind his father 's house at the bottom of Leith Walk . We had a special means of communication . When anything particular was going on at the laboratory , Tom hoisted a white flag on the top of a high pole in his father 's garden . Though I was more than a mile apart , I kept a look-out in the direction of the laboratory with a spy-glass . My father 's house was at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the bottom of it . When the flag was hoisted I could clearly see the invitation to me to " come down . " I was only too glad to run down the Walk and join my chum , and take part with him in some interesting chemical process . Mr. Smith , the father , made me heartily welcome . He was pleased to see his son so much attached to me , and he perhaps believed that I was worthy of his friendship . We took zealous part in all the chemical proceedings , and in that way Tom was fitting himself for the business of his life . Mr. Smith was a most genial tempered man . He was shrewd and quick-witted , like a native of York , as he was . I received the greatest kindness from him as well as from his family . His house was like a museum . It was full of cabinets , in which were placed choice and interesting objects in natural history , geology , mineralogy , and metallurgy . All were represented . Many of these specimens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ captains who transported his colour manufactures and other commodities to foreign parts . My friend Tom Smith and I made it a rule  --  and in this we were encouraged by his father  --  that , so far as was possible , we ourselves should actually make the acids and other substances used in our experiments . We were not to buy them ready made , as this would have taken the zest out of our enjoyment . We should have lost the pleasure and instruction of producing them by aid of our own wits and energies . To encounter and overcome a difficulty is the most interesting of all things . Hence , though often baffled , we eventually produced perfect specimens of nitrous , nitric , and muriatic acids . We distilled alcohol from duly fermented sugar and water , and rectified the resultant spirit from fusel oil by passing the alcoholic vapour through animal charcoal before it entered the worm of the still . We converted part of the alcohol into sulphuric ether . We produced phosphorus from bones , and elaborated many of the mysteries of chemistry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this system of making our own chemical agents was such as to reward us , in many respects , for the labour we underwent . To outsiders it might appear a very troublesome and roundabout way of getting at the finally desired result . But I feel certain that there is no better method of rooting chemical or any other instruction , deeply in our minds . Indeed , I regret that the same system is not pursued by young men of the present day . They are seldom , if ever , called upon to exert their own wits and industry to obtain the requisites for their instruction . A great deal is now said about " technical education " ; but how little there is of technical handiness or head work ! Everything is bought ready made to their hands ; and hence there is no call for individual ingenuity . I often observe , in shop-windows , every detail of model ships and model steam-engines , supplied ready made for those who are " said to be " of an ingenious and mechanical turn . Thus the vital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sham exhibition of mechanical genius is paraded before you by the young impostors  --  the result , for the most part , of too free a supply of pocket money . I have known too many instances of parents , led by such false evidence of constructive skill , apprenticing their sons to some engineering firm ; and , after paying vast sums , finding out that the pretender comes out of the engineering shop with no other practical accomplishment than that of cigar-smoking ! The truth is that the eyes and the fingers  --  the bare fingers  --  are the two principal inlets to sound practical instruction . They are the chief sources of trustworthy knowledge as to all the materials and operations which the engineer has to deal with , No book knowledge can avail for that purpose . The nature and properties of the materials must come in through the finger ends . Hence , I have no faith in young engineers who are addicted to wearing gloves . Gloves , especially kid gloves , are perfect non-conductors of technical knowledge . This has really more to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most people are aware of ! CHAPTER 6 . Mechanical Beginnings . I left the High School at the end of 1820 . I carried with me a small amount of Latin , and no Greek . I do not think I was much the better for my small acquaintance with the dead languages . I wanted something more living and quickening . I continued my studies at private classes . Arithmetic and geometry were my favourite branches.The three first books of Euclid were to me a new intellectual life . They brought out my power of reasoning . They trained me mentally . They enabled me to arrive at correct conclusions , and to acquire a knowledge of absolute truths . It is because of this that I have ever since held the beautifully perfect method of reasoning , as exhibited in the exact method of arriving at Q.E.D. , to be one of the most satisfactory efforts and exercises of the human intellect . Besides visiting and taking part in the works at Patterson 's foundry , and joining in the chemical experiments at Smith 's laboratory , my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawing . He taught me to sketch with exactness every object , whether natural or artificial , so as to enable the hand to accurately reproduce what the eye had seen . In order to acquire this almost invaluable art , which can serve so many valuable purposes in life , he was careful to educate my eye , so that I might perceive the relative proportions of the objects placed before me . He would throw down at random a number of bricks , or pieces of wood representing them , and set me to copy their forms , their proportions , their lights and shadows respectively . I have often heard him say that any one who could make a correct drawing in regard to outline , and also indicate by a few effective touches the variation of lights and shadows of such a group of model object 's , might not despair of making a good and correct sketch of the exterior of York Minster ! My father was an enthusiast in praise of this graphic language , and I have followed his example . In fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It gave me the power of recording observations with a few graphic strokes of the pencil , which far surpassed in expression any number of mere words . This graphic eloquence is one of the highest gifts in conveying clear and correct ideas as to the forms of objects  --  whether they be those of a simple and familiar kind , or of some form of mechanical construction , or of the details of fine building , or the characteristic features of a wide-stretching landscape . This accomplishment of accurate drawing , which I achieved for the most part in my father 's work-room , served me many a good turn in future years with reference to the engineering work which became the business of my life . I was constantly busy . Mind , hands , and body were kept in a state of delightful and instructive activity . When not drawing , I occupied myself in my father 's workshop at the lathe , the furnace , or the bench . I gradually became initiated into every variety of mechanical and chemical manipulation . I made my own tools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in my power . With respect to the latter , I constructed a very handy and effective blowpipe apparatus , consisting of a small air force-pump , connected with a cylindrical vessel of tin plate . By means of an occasional use of the handy pump , it yielded such a fine steady blowpipe blast , as enabled me to bend glass tubes and blow bulbs for thermometers , to analyse metals or mineral substances , or to do any other work for which intense heat was necessary . My natural aptitude for manipulation , whether in mechanical or chemical operations , proved very serviceable to myself as well as to others ; and ( as will be shown hereafter ) it gained for me the friendship of many distinguished scientific men . But I did not devote myself altogether to experiments . Exercise is as necessary for the body as the mind . Without full health a man can not enjoy comfort , nor can he possess endurance . I therefore took plenty of exercise out of doors . I accompanied my father in his walks round Edinburgh . My @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes my father was accompanied by brother-artists , whose conversation is always so attractive ; and sometimes by scientific men , such as Sir James Hall , Professor Leslie , Dr. Brewster , and others . Whatever may have been my opportunities for education so-called , nothing could have better served the purpose of real education ( the evolution of the mental faculties ) than the opportunities I enjoyed while accompanying and listening to the conversation of men distinguished for their originality of thought and their high intellectual capacity . This was a mental culture of the best kind . The volcanic origin of the beautiful scenery round Edinburgh was often the subject of their conversation . Probably few visitors are aware that all those remarkable eminences , which give to the city and its surroundings so peculiar and romantic an aspect , are the results of the operation , during inconceivably remote ages , of volcanic force penetrating the earth 's crust by disruptive power , and pouring forth streams of molten lava , now shrunk and cooled into volcanic rock . The observant eye , opened by the light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of things which were in action at periods so remote as , in comparison , to shrink up the oldest of human records into events of yesterday . I had often the privilege of standing by and hearing the philosophic Leslie , Brewster , and Hall , discussing these volcanic remains in their actual presence ; sometimes at Arthur 's Seat or on the Calton Hill , or at the rock on which Edinburgh Castle stands , Their observations sank indelibly into my memory , and gave me the key to the origin of this grand class of terrestrial phenomena . When standing at the " Giant 's Ribs , " on the south side of Arthur 's Seat , I felt as if one of the grandest pages of the earth 's history lay open before me . The evidences of similar volcanic action abound in many other places near Edinburgh ; and they may be traced right across Scotland from the Bass Rock to Fingal 's Cave , the Giant 's Causeway in Antrim , and Slievh League on the south-west coast of Donegal in Ireland . Volcanic action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crust history , has been the Plough , and after denudation by water , has been the Harrow , by which the originally deep-seated mineral treasures of the globe have been brought within the reach of man 's industrial efforts . It has thus yielded him inexhaustible mineral harvests , and helped him to some of the most important material elements in his progress towards civilisation . It is from this consideration that , while enjoying the results of these grand fundamental actions of the Creator 's mighty agencies in their picturesque aspect , the knowledge of their useful results to man adds vastly to the grandeur of the contemplation of their aspect and nature . This great subject caused me , even at this early period of my life , to behold with special interest the first peep at the structure of the moon 's surface , as revealed to me by an excellent Ramsden " spy-glass , " which my father possessed , and thus planted the seed of that earnest desire to scrutinise more minutely the moon 's wonderful surface , which in after years I pursued by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To turn to another subject . In 1822 the loyalty of Scotland was greatly excited when George the Fourth paid his well-known visit to Edinburgh . It was then the second greatest city in the kingdom , and had not been visited by royalty for about 170 years . The civic authorities , and the inhabitants generally , exerted themselves to the utmost to give the king a cordial welcome , in spite of a certain feeling of dissatisfaction as to his personal character . The recent trial and death of Queen Caroline had not been forgotten , yet all such recollections were suppressed in the earnest desire to show every respect to the royal visitor . Edinburgh was crowded with people from all parts of the country ; heather was arrayed on every bonnet and hat ; and the reception was on the whole magnificent . Perhaps the most impressive spectacle was the orderliness of the multitude , all arrayed in their Sunday clothes . The streets , windows ; and house-tops were crowded ; and the Calton Hill , Salisbury Crags , and even Arthur 's Seat it self @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arrival a gigantic bonfire on Arthur 's Seat lit up with a tremendous blaze the whole city , as well as the surrounding country . It formed a magnificent and picturesque sight , illuminating the adjacent mountains as well as the prominent features of the city . It made one imagine that the grand old volcanic mountain had once more , after a rest of some hundreds of thousands of years , burst out again in its former vehemence of eruptive activity . There were , of course , many very distinguished men who took part in the pageant of the king 's entry into Edinburgh , but none of them had their presence more cordially acknowledged than Sir Walter Scott , who never felt more proud of " his own romantic town " than he did upon this occasion . It is unnecessary to mention the many interesting features of the royal reception . The king 's visit lasted for seven or eight days , and everything passed off loyally , orderly , happily , and successfully . Shortly after this time there was a great deal of distress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short of employment , and the weavers and factory workers were thrown upon the public . Many of the workmen thought that politics were the causes of their suffering . Radical clubs were formed , and the Glasgow weavers began to drill at nights in the hopes of setting things to rights by means of physical force . A large number of the starving weavers came to Edinburgh . A committee was formed , and contributions were collected , for the purpose of giving them temporary employment . They were set to work to make roads and walks round the Calton Hill and Crags . The fine walk immediately under the precipitous crags , which opens out such perfect panoramic views of Edinburgh , was made by these poor fellows . It was hard work for their delicate hands and fingers , which before had been accustomed only to deal with threads and soft fabrics . They were very badly suited for handling the mattock , shovel , and hand-barrow . The result of their labours , however , proved of great advantage to Edinburgh in opening up the beauties of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called " The Radical Road . " Let me here mention one of the most memorable incidents of the year 1824 . I refer to the destructive fire which took place in the old town of Edinburgh . It broke out in an apartment situated in one of the highest piles of houses in the High Street . In spite of every effort of the firemen the entire pile was gutted and destroyed . The fire was thought to be effectually arrested ; but towards the afternoon of the next day smoke was observed issuing from the upper part of the steeple of the Tron Church . The steeple was built of timber , covered with lead . There is never smoke but there is fire ; and at last the flames burst forth . The height of the spire was so lofty that all attempts to extinguish the fire were hopeless . The lead was soon melted , and rushed in streams into the street below . At length the whole steeple fell down with a frightful crash . I happened to see the first outbreak of this extraordinary fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burning embers were carried by the wind and communicated the fire to neighbouring houses . The last outburst took place one night about ten . All the fire-engines of Edinburgh and the neighbourhood were collected round the buildings , and played water upon the flames , but without effect . Whole ranges of lofty old houses were roaring with fire . In the course of two or three hours , several acres , covered by the loftiest and most densely crowded houses in the High Street , were in a blaze . Some of them were of thirteen stories . Floor after floor came crashing down , throwing out a blaze of embers . The walls of each house acted as an enormous chimney  --  the windows acting as draught-holes . The walls , under the intense heat , were fluxed and melted into a sort of glass . The only method of stopping the progress of the fire was to pull down the neighbouring houses , so as to isolate the remaining parts of the High Street . As the parapet of the grand old tower of the High Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fire ,  --  so near as to enable one to look down into it ,  --  my father obtained permission to ascend , and I with him . When we emerged from the long dark spiral stairs on to the platform on the top of the tower , we found a select party of the most distinguished inhabitants looking down into the vast area of fire ; and prominent among them was Sir Walter Scott . At last , after three days of tremendous efforts , the fire was subdued ; but not till after a terrible destruction of property . The great height of the ruined remains of the piles of houses rendered it impossible to have them removed by the ordinary means . After several fruitless attempts with chains and ropes , worked by capstans , to pull them down , gunpowder was at last resorted to . Mines were dug under each vast pile ; one or two barrels of gunpowder were placed into them and fired ; and then the before solid masses came tumbling down amidst clouds of dust . The management of this hazardous but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He ordered a crew of sailors to be brought up from the man-of-war guardship in the Firth of Forth ; and by their united efforts the destruction of the ruined walls was at last successfully accomplished . In the autumn of 1823 , when I was fifteen years old , I had a most delightful journey with my father . It was the first occasion on which I had been a considerable distance from home . And yet the journey was only to Stirling . My father had received a commission to paint a view of the castle as seen from the ruins of Cambuskenneth Abbey , situated a few miles from the town . We started from Newhaven by a small steamboat , passing , on our way up the Firth , Queensferry , Culross , and Alloa . We then entered the windings of the river , from which I saw the Ochils , a noble range of bright green mountains . The passage of the steamer through the turns and windings of the Forth was most interesting . We arrived at Stirling , and at once proceeded to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tower . This formed the foreground of my father 's careful sketch , with Stirling Castle in the background , and Ben Lomond with many other of the Highland mountains in the distance . As my father wished to make a model of the Gothic tower , he desired me to draw it carefully , and to take the dimensions of all the chief parts as well as to make detailed sketches of its minor architectural features . It was a delightful autumn afternoon , and , before the day had closed , our work at the abbey was done . We returned to Stirling and took a walk round the castle to see the effect of the sun setting behind the Highland mountains . Next morning we visited the castle . I was much interested with the interior , especially with a beautifully decorated Gothic oratory or private chapel , used by the Scottish kings when they resided at Stirling . The oratory had been converted with great taste into an ante-drawingroom of the governor 's house . The exquisite decorations of this chapel* footnote ... This exquisite specimen of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scottish history connected with it . It was in this place that The Douglas intruded his presence on James the Third . He urged his demands in a violent and threatening manner , and afterwards laid hands upon the king . The latter , in defending himself with his dagger , wounded the Douglas mortally ; and to get rid of the body the king cast it out of the window of the chapel , where it fell down the precipitous rock underneath . The chapel has since been destroyed by fire . ... were the first specimens of Gothic carving in oak that I had ever seen , and they seemed to put our modern carvings to shame . The Great Hall , where the Scottish Parliament used to meet , was also very interesting as connected with the ancient history of the country . From Stirling we walked to Alloa , passing the picturesque cascades rushing down the cleft 's of the Ochils . We put up for the night at Clackmannan , a very decayed and melancholy-looking village , though it possessed a fine specimen of the Scottish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here before the Battle of Bannockburn . But the most interesting thing that I saw during the journey was the Devon Ironworks . I had read and heard about the processes carried on there in smelting iron ore and running it into pig-iron . The origin of the familiar trade term " pig-iron " is derived from the result of the arrangement most suitable for distributing the molten iron as it rushes forth from the opening made at the bottom part of the blast-furnace ; when , after its reduction from the ore , it collects in a fluid mass of several tons weight . Previous to " tapping " the furnace a great central channel is made in the sand-covered floor of the forge ; this central channel is then subdivided into many lateral branches or canals , into which the molten iron flows , and eventually hardens . The great steam-engine that worked the blast furnace was the largest I had ever seen . A singular expedient was employed at these works , of using a vast vault hewn in the solid rock of the hillside for the purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so equalising the pressure ; thus turning a mountain side into a reservoir for the use of a blast-furnace . This seemed to me a daring and wonderful engineering feat . We waited at the works until the usual time had arrived for letting out the molten iron which had been accumulating at the lower part of the blast-furnace . It was a fine sight to see the stream of white-hot iron flowing like water into the large gutter immediately before the opening . From this the molten iron flowed on until it filled the moulds of sand which branched off from the central gutter . The iron left in the centre , when cooled and broken up , was called sow metal , while that in the branches was called pig iron ; the terms being derived from the appearance of a sow engaged in its maternal duties . The pig-iron is thus cast in handy-sized pieces for the purpose of being transported to other iron foundries ; while the clumsy sow metal is broken up and passes through another process of melting , or is reserved for foundry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspecting with great pleasure the machinery connected with the foundry , we took our leave and returned to Edinburgh by steamer from Alloa . Shortly after , I had the good fortune to make the acquaintance of Robert Bald , the well-known mining engineer . He was one of the most kind-hearted men I have ever known . He was always ready to communicate his knowledge to young and old . His sound judgment and long practical experience in regard to coal-mining and the various machinery connected with it , rendered him a man of great importance in the northern counties , where his advice was eagerly sought for . Besides his special knowledge , he had a large acquaintance with literature and science . He was bright , lively , and energetic . He was a living record of good stories , and in every circle in which he moved he was the focus of cheerfulness . In fact , there was no greater social favourite in Edinburgh than Robert Bald . Bald was very fond of young people , and he became much attached to me . He used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came in to see what I was about in the work-room . He was rejoiced to see the earnest and industrious manner in which I was employed , in preparing myself for my proposed business as an engineer . He looked over my tools , mostly of my own making , and gave me every encouragement . When he had any visitors he usually brought them and introduced them to me . In this way I had the happiness to make the acquaintance of Robert Napier , Nelson , and Cook , of Glasgow ; and in after life I continued to enjoy their friendship . It would be difficult for me to detail the acts of true disinterested kindness which I continued to receive from this admirable man . On several occasions he wished me to accompany him on his business journeys , in order that I might see some works that would supply me with valuable information . He had designed a powerful pumping engine to drain more effectually a large colliery district situated near Bannockburn  --  close to the site of the great battle in the time of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was with the greatest pleasure that I accepted his invitation ; for there would be not only the pleasure of seeing a noble piece of steam machinery brought into action for the first time , but also the enjoyment of visiting the celebrated Carron Ironworks . The Carron Ironworks are classic ground to engineers . They are associated with the memory of Roebuck , Watt , and Miller of Dalswinton . For there Roebuck and Watt began the first working steam-engine ; Miller applied the steam-engine to the purposes of navigation , and invented the Carronade gun . The works existed at an early period in the history of British iron manufacture . Much of the machinery continued to be of wood . Although effective in a general way it was monstrously cumbrous . It gave the idea of vast power and capability of resistance , while it was far from being so in reality . It was , however , truly imposing and impressive in its effect upon strangers . When seen partially lit up by the glowing masses of white-hot iron , with only the rays of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the dark , black , smoky vaults in which the cumbrous machinery was heard rumbling away in the distance  --  while the moving parts were dimly seen through the murky atmosphere , mixed with the sounds of escaping steam and rushes of water ; with the half-naked men darting about with masses of red-hot iron and ladles full of molten cast-iron  --  it made a powerful impression upon the mind . I was afterwards greatly interested by a collection of old armour , dug up from the field of the Battle of Bannockburn close at hand . They were arranged on the walls of the house of the manager of the Carron Ironworks . There were swords , daggers , lances , battle-axes , shields , and coats of chain-armour . Some of the latter were whole , others in fragmentary portions . I was particularly interested with the admirable workmanship of the coats of mail . The iron links extended from the covering of the head to the end of the arms , and from the shoulders down to the hips , in one linked iron fabric . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forged and built up were truly wonderful . There must have been " giants in those days . " This grand style of armour was in use from the time of the Conquest , and was most effective in the way of protection , as it was fitted by its flexibility to give full play to the energetic action of the wearer . It was infinitely superior to the senseless plate-armour that was used , at a subsequent period , to encase soldiers like lobsters . The chain-armour I saw at Carron left a deep impression on my mind . I never see a bit of it , or of its representation in the figures on our grand tombs of the thirteenth century , but I think of my first sight of it at Carron and of the tremendous conflict at Bannockburn . Remembering , also , the impressive sight of the picturesque fire-lit halls , and the terrible-looking , cumbrous machinery which I first beheld on a grand scale at Carron , I have often regretted that some of our artists do not follow up the example set them by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us to the pictures of some of our great ironworks . They not only abound with the elements of the picturesque in its highest sense , but also set forth the glory of the useful arts in such a way as would worthily call forth the highest power of our artists . To return to my life at Edinburgh . I was now seventeen years old . I had acquired a considerable amount of practical knowledge as to the use and handling of mechanical tools , and I desired to turn it to some account . I was able to construct working models of steam-engines and other apparatus required for the illustration of mechanical subjects . I began with making a small working steam engine for the purpose of grinding the oil-colours used by my father in his artistic work . The result was quite satisfactory . Many persons came to see my active little steam-engine at work , and they were so pleased with it that I received several orders for small workshop engines , and also for some models of steam-engines to illustrate the subjects taught at Mechanics ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James Nasmyth I contrived a sectional model of a complete condensing steam-engine of the beam and parallel motion construction . The model , as seen from one side , exhibited every external detail in full and due action when the flywheel was moved round by hand ; while , on the other or sectional side , every detail of the interior was seen , with the steam-valves and air-pump , as well as the motion of the piston in the cylinder , with the construction of the piston and the stuffing box , together with the slide-valve and steam passages , all in due position and relative movement . The first of these sectional models of the steam-engine was made for the Edinburgh School of Arts , where its uses in instructing mechanics and others in the application of steam were highly appreciated . The second was made for Professor Leslie , of the Edinburgh University , for use in his lectures on Natural Philosophy . The professor had , at his own private cost , provided a complete and excellent set of apparatus , which , for excellent workmanship and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided for the service of any university . He was so pleased with my addition to his class-room apparatus , that , besides expressing his great thanks for my services , he most handsomely presented me with a free ticket to his Natural Philosophy class as a regular student , so long as it suited me to make use of his instruction . But far beyond this , as a reward for my earnest endeavours to satisfy this truly great philosopher , was the kindly manner in which he on all occasions communicated to me conversationally his original and masterly views on the great fundamental principles of Natural Philosophy  - -  especially as regarded the principles of Dynamics and the Philosophy of Mechanics . The clear views which he communicated in his conversation , as well as in his admirable lectures , vividly illustrated by the experiments which he had originated , proved of great advantage to me ; and I had every reason to consider his friendship and his teaching as amongst the most important elements in my future success as a practical engineer . Having referred to the Edinburgh School of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the origin of that excellent institution . A committee of the most distinguished citizens of Edinburgh was formed for the purpose of instituting a college in which working men and mechanics might possess the advantages of instruction in the principles on which their various occupations were conducted . Among the committee were Leonard Horner , Francis Jeffrey , Henry Cockburn , John Murray of Henderland , Alexander Bryson , James Mline , John Miller , the Lord Provost , and various members of the Council . Their efforts succeeded , and the institution was founded . The classes were opened in 1821 , in which year I became a student . In order to supply the students , who were chiefly young men of the working class , with sound instruction in the various branches of science , the lectures were delivered and the classes were superintended by men of established ability in their several departments . This course was regularly pursued from its fundamental and elementary principles to the highest point of scientific instruction . The consecutive lectures and examinations extended , as in the University , from October to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact , our first technical college . In these later days when so many of our so-called Mechanics ' Institutes are merely cheap reading-clubs for the middle classes , and the lectures are delivered for the most part merely for a pleasant evening ' s amusement , it seems to me that we have greatly departed from the original design with which Mechanics ' Institutions were founded . As the Edinburgh School of Arts was intended for the benefit of mechanics , the lectures and classes were held in the evening after the day 's work was over . The lectures on chemistry were given by Dr. Fyfe  --  an excellent man . His clearness of style , his successful experiments , and the careful and graphic method by which he carried his students from the first fundamental principles to the highest points of chemical science , attracted a crowded and attentive audience . Not less interesting were the lectures on Mechanical Philosophy , which in my time were delivered by Dr. Lees and Mr.Buchanan . The class of Geometry and Mathematics was equally well conducted , though the attendance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had secured for the lecture-hall and class-rooms of the institution was situated at the lower end of Niddry Street , nearly under the great arch of the South Bridge . It had been built about a hundred years before , and was formerly used by an association of amateur musicians , who gave periodical concerts of vocal and instrumental music . The orchestra was now converted into a noble lecture table , with accommodation for any amount of apparatus that might be required for the purposes of illustration . The seats were arranged in the body of the hall in concentric segments , with the lecture table as their centre . In an alcove fight opposite the lecturer might often be seen the directors of the institution  - -  Jeffrey , Horner , Murray , and others  --  who took every opportunity of dignifying by their presence this noble gathering of earnest and intelligent working men . A library of scientific books was soon added to the institution , by purchases or by gifts . Such was the eagerness to have a chance of getting the book you wanted that I remember standing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applicants awaiting the opening of the door on an evening library night . It was as crowded as if I had been standing at the gallery door of the theatre on a night when some distinguished star from London was about to make his appearance . There was the same eagerness to get a good place in the lecture-room , as near to the lecture table as possible , especially on the chemistry nights . I continued my regular attendance at this admirable institution from 1821 to 1826 . I am glad to find that it still continues in active operation . In November 1880 the number of students attending the Edinburgh School of Arts amounted to two thousand five hundred ! I have been led to this prolix account of the beginning of the institution by the feeling that I owe a deep debt of gratitude to it , and because of the instructive and intellectually enjoyable evenings which I spent there , in fitting myself for entering upon the practical work of my life . The successful establishment of the Edinburgh School of Arts had a considerable effect throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivered , and the necessary illustrations were acquired  --  above all , the working models of the steam-engine . There was quite a run upon me for supplying them . My third working model was made to the order of Robert Bald , for the purpose of being presented to the Alloa Mechanics ' Institute ; the fourth was manufactured for Mr. G. Buchanan , who lectured on mechanical subjects throughout the country ; and the fifth was supplied to a Mr. Offley , an English gentleman who took a fancy for the model when he came to purchase some of my father 's works . The price I charged for my models was #10 ; and with the pecuniary results I made over one-third to my father , as a sort of help to remunerate him for my " keep , " and with the rest I purchased tickets of admission to certain classes in the University . I attended the Chemistry course under Dr. Hope ; the Geometry and Mathematical course under Professor Wallace ; and the Natural Philosophy course under my valued friend and patron Professor Leslie . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workshop and drawing occupations , my time did not hang at all heavy on my hands . I got up early in the mornings to work at my father 's lathe , and I sat up late at night to do the brass castings in my bedroom . Some of this , however , I did during the day-time , when not attending the University classes . The way in which I converted my bedroom into a brass foundry was as follows : I took up the carpet so that there might be nothing but the bare boards to be injured by the heat . My furnace in the grate was made of four plates of stout sheet-iron , lined with fire-brick , corner to corner . To get the requisite sharp draught I bricked up with single bricks the front of the fireplace , leaving a hole at the back of the furnace for the short pipe just to fit into . The fuel was generally gas coke and cinders saved from the kitchen . The heat I raised was superb  --  a white heat , sufficient to melt in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I had a box of moulding sand , where the moulds were gently rammed in around the pattern previous to the casting . But how did I get my brass ? All the old brassworks in my father 's workshop drawers and boxes were laid under contribution . This brass being for the most part soft and yellow , I made it extra hard by the addition of a due proportion of tin . It was then capable of retaining a fine edge . When I had exhausted the stock of old brass , I had to buy old copper , or new , in the form of ingot or tile copper , and when melted I added to it one-eighth of its weight of pure tin , which yielded the strongest alloy of the two metals . When cast into any required form this was a treat to work , so sound and close was the grain , and so durable in resisting wear and tear . This is the true bronze or gun metal . When melted , the liquid brass was let into the openings , until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooled it was taken out ; and when the room was sorted up no one could have known that my foundry operations had been carried on in my bedroom . My brass foundry was right over my father 's bedroom . He had forbidden me to work late at night , as I did occasionally on the sly . Sometimes when I ought to have been asleep I was detected by the sound of the ramming in of the sand of the moulding boxes . On such occasions my father let me know that I was disobeying his orders by rapping on the ceiling of his bedroom with a slight wooden rod of ten feet that he kept for measuring purposes . But I got over that difficulty by placing a bit of old carpet under my moulding boxes as a non-conductor of sound , so that no ramming could afterwards be heard . My dear mother also was afraid that I should damage my health by working so continuously . She would come into the workroom late in the evening , when I was working at the lathe or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , laddie , by working so hard and so late " . Yet she took a great pride in seeing me so busy and so happy . Nearly the whole of my steam-engine models were made in my father 's workroom . His foot-lathe and stove , together with my brass casting arrangements in my bedroom , answered all my purposes in the way of model making . But I had at times to avail myself of the smithy and foundry that my kind and worthy friend , George Douglass , had established in the neighbourhood . He had begun business as " a jobbing smith , " but being a most intelligent and energetic workman , he shot ahead and laid the foundations of a large trade in steam-engines . When I had any part of a job in hand that was beyond the capabilities of my father 's lathe , or my bedroom casting apparatus , I immediately went to Douglass 's smithy , where every opportunity was afforded me for carrying on my larger class of work . His place was only about five minutes ' walk from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his large turning-lathe , which was much more suitable for big or heavy work than the lathe at home . When any considerable bit of steel or iron forging had to be done , a forge fire and anvil were always placed at my service . In making my flywheels for the sectional models of steam-engines I had a rather neat and handy way of constructing them . The boss of the wheel of brass was nicely bored ; the arm-holes were carefully drilled and taped , so as to allow the arms which I had turned to be screwed in and appear like neat columns of round wrought iron or steel screwed into the boss of the flywheel . In return for the great kindness of George Douglass in allowing me to have the use of his foundry , I resolved to present him with a specimen of my handiwork . I desired to try my powers in making a more powerful steam-engine than I had as yet attempted to construct , in order to drive the large turning-lathe and the other tools and machinery of his small foundry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high-pressure steam-engine , with a cylinder four inches in diameter . I use the term direct acting , because I dispensed with the beam and parallel motion , which was generally considered the correct mode of transferring the action of the piston to the crank . The result of my labours was a very efficient steam-engine , which set all the lathes and mechanical tools in brisk activity of movement . It had such an enlivening effect upon the workmen that George Douglass afterwards told me that the busy hum of the wheels , and the active , smooth , rhythmic sound of the merry little engine had , through some sympathetic agency , so quickened the stroke of every hammer , chisel , and file in his workmen 's hands , that it nearly doubled the output of work for the same wages ! The sympathy of activity acting upon the workmen 's hands can not be better illustrated than by a story told me by my father . A master tailor in a country town employed a number of workmen . They had been to see some tragic melodrama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A very slow , doleful , but catching air was played , which so laid hold of the tailors ' fancy that for some time after they were found slowly whistling or humming the doleful ditty , the movement of their needles keeping time to it ; the result was that the clothing that should have been sent home on Saturday was not finished until the Wednesday following . The music had done it ! The master tailor , being something of a philosopher , sent his men to the play again ; but he arranged that they should be treated with lively merry airs . The result was that the lively airs displaced the doleful ditty ; and the tailors ' needles again reverted to even more than their accustomed quickness . However true the story may be , it touches an important principle in regard to the stimulation of activity by the rapid movements or sounds of machinery , which influence every workman within their sight or hearing . We all know the influence of a quick merry air , played by fife and drum , upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the same with the quick movements of a steam-engine upon the activity of workmen . I may add that my worthy friend , George Douglass , derived other advantages from the construction of my steam-engine . Being of an enterprising disposition he added another iron foundry to his smaller shops ; he obtained many good engineering tools , and in course of time he began to make steam-engines for agricultural purposes . These were used in lieu of horse power for thrashing corn , and performing several operations that used to be done by hand labour in the farmyards . Orders came in rapidly , and before long the chimneys of Douglass 's steam-engines were as familiar in the country round Edinburgh as corn stacks . All the large farms , especially in Midlothian and East Lothian , were supplied with his steam-engines . The business of George Douglass became very large ; and in course of time he was enabled to retire with a considerable fortune . In addition to the steam-engine which I presented to Douglass , I received an order to make another from a manufacturer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labour ; but as his business extended , the manufacturer employed me to furnish him with all engine of two-horse power , which was duly constructed and set to work , and gave him the highest satisfaction . Image James Nasmyth 's Expansometer , 1826 . I may here mention that one of my earliest attempts at original contrivance was an Expansometer  --  an instrument for measuring in bulk all metals and solid substances . The object to be experimented on was introduced into a tube of brass , with as much water round it as to fill the tube . The apparatus was then plunged into a vessel of boiling water , or heated to boiling point ; when the total expansion of the bar was measured by a graduated scale , as seen in the annexed engraving . By this simple means the expansion of any material might be ascertained under various increments of heat , say from 60deg to 2l2deg . It was simply a thermometer , the mass marking its own expansion . Dr. Brewster was so much pleased with the apparatus that he described it and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was then editor . Image The road steam-carriage . By James Nasmyth . About the year 1827 , when I was nineteen years old , the subject of steam carriages to run upon common roads occupied considerable attention . Several engineers and mechanical schemers had tried their hands , but as yet no substantial results had come of their attempts to solve the problem . Like others , I tried my hand . Having made a small working model of a steam-carriage , I exhibited it before the members of the Scottish Society of Arts . The performance of this active little machine was so gratifying to the Society that they requested me to construct one of such power as to enable four or six persons to be conveyed along the ordinary roads . The members of the Society , in their individual capacity , subscribed #60 , which they placed in my hands as the means for carrying out their project . I accordingly set to work at once . I had the heavy parts of the engine and carriage done at Anderson 's foundry at Leith . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ named Robert Maclaughlan , who had served his time at Carmichaels ' of Dundee . Anderson possessed some excellent tools , which enabled me to proceed rapidly with the work . Besides , he was most friendly , and took much delight in being concerned in my enterprise . This " big job " was executed in about four months . The steam-carriage was completed and exhibited before the members of the Society of Arts . Many successful trials were made with it on the queensferry Road , near Edinburgh . The runs were generally of four or five miles , with a load of eight passengers sitting on benches about three feet from the ground . The experiments were continued for nearly three months , to the great satisfaction of the members . I may mention that in my steam-carriage I employed the waste steam to create a blast or draught by discharging it into the short chimney of the boiler at its lowest part , and found it most effective . I was not at that time aware that George Stephenson and others had adopted the same method ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I had been correct as regards the important uses of the steam blast in the chimney . In fact , it is to this use of the waste steam that we owe the practical success of the locomotive-engine as a tractive power on railways , especially at high speeds . The Society of Arts did not attach any commercial value to my steam road-carriage . It was merely as a matter of experiment that they had invited me to construct it . When it proved successful they made me a present of the entire apparatus . As I was anxious to get on with my studies , and to prepare for the work of practical engineering , I proceeded no further . I broke up the steam-carriage and sold the two small high-pressure engines , provided with a compact and strong boiler , for #67 , a sum which more than defrayed all the expenses of the construction and working of the machine . I still continued to make investigations as to the powers and capabilities of the steam-engine . There were numerous breweries , distilleries , and other establishments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As they were made by different engineers , I was desirous of seeing them and making sketches of them , especially when there was any special peculiarity in their construction . I found this a most favourite and instructive occupation . The engine tenters became very friendly with me , and they we re always glad to see me interested in them and their engines . They were especially delighted to see me make " drafts , " as they called my sketches , of the engines under their charge . My father sometimes feared that my too close and zealous application to engineering work might have a bad effect upon my health . My bedroom work at brass casting , my foundry work at the making of steam-engines , and my studies at the University classes , were perhaps too much for a lad of my age , just when I was in the hobbledehoy state  --  between a boy and a man . Whether his apprehensions were warranted or not , it did so happen that I was attacked with typhus fever in 1828 , a disease that was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from its fatal influence . But thanks to my good constitution , and to careful nursing , I succeeded in throwing off the fever , and after due time recovered my usual health and strength . In the course of my inspection of the engines made by different makers , I was impressed with the superiority of those made by the Carmichaels of Dundee . They were excellent both in design and in execution . I afterwards found that the Carmichaels were among the first of the Scottish engine makers who gave due attention to the employment of improved mechanical tools , with the object of producing accurate work with greater ease , rapidity , and economy , than could possibly be effected by the hand labour of even the most skilful workmen . I was told that the cause of the excellence of the Carmichaels ' work was not only in the ability of the heads of the firm , but in their employment of the best engineers ' tools . Some of their leading men had worked at Maudslay 's machine shop in London , the fame of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employing machine tools had been imported into the northern steam factory . I had on many occasions , when visiting the works where steam-engines were employed , heard of the name and fame of Maudslay . I was told that his works were the very centre and climax of all that was excellent in mechanical workmanship . These reports built up in my mind , at this early period of my aspirations , an earnest and hopeful desire that I might some day get a sight of Maudslay 's celebrated works in London . In course of time it developed into a passion . I will now proceed to show how my inmost desires were satisfied . CHAPTER 7 . Henry Maudslay , London The chief object of my ambition was now to be taken on at Henry Maudslay 's works in London . I had heard so much of his engineering work , of his assortment of machine-making tools , and of the admirable organisation of his manufactory , that I longed to obtain employment there . I was willing to labour , in however humble a capacity , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not the means of paying the large premium required for placing me as an apprentice at Maudslay 's works . I was also informed that Maudslay had ceased to take pupils . After experience , he found that the premium apprentices caused him much annoyance and irritation . They came in " gloves ; " their attendance was irregular ; they spread a bad example amongst the regular apprentices and workmen ; and on the whole they were found to be very disturbing elements in the work of the factory . It therefore occurred to me that , by showing some specimens of my work and drawings , I might be able to satisfy Mr. Maudslay that I was not an amateur , but a regular working engineer . With this object I set to work , and made with special care a most complete working model of a high-pressure engine . The cylinder was 2 inches diameter , and the stroke 6 inches . Every part of the engine , including the patterns , the castings , the forgings , were the results of my own individual handiwork . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineer workman in such a style as even now I should be proud to own . In like manner I executed several specimens of my ability as a mechanical draughtsman ; for I knew that Maudslay would thoroughly understand my ability to work after a plan . Mechanical drawing is the alphabet of the engineer . Without this the workman is merely a " hand . " With it he indicates the possession of " a head " I also made some samples of my skill in hand-sketching of machines , and parts of machines , in perspective  --  that is , as such objects really appear when set before us in their natural aspect . I was the more desirous of exhibiting the ability which I possessed in mechanical draughtsmanship , as I knew it to be a somewhat rare and much-valued acquirement . It was a branch of delineative art that my father had carefully taught me . Throughout my professional life I have found this art to be of the utmost practical value . Having thus provided myself with such visible and tangible evidences of my capabilities as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ model and drawings , and prepared to start for London . On the 19th of May 1829 , accompanied by my father , I set sail by the Leith smack Edinburgh Castle , Captain Orr , master . After a pleasant voyage of four days we reached the mouth of the Thames . We sailed up from the Nore on Saturday afternoon , lifted up , as it were , by the tide , for it was almost a dead calm the whole way . The sight of the banks of the famous river , with the Kent orchards in full blossom , and the frequent passages of steamers with bands of music and their decks crowded with pleasure-seekers , together with the sight of numbers of noble merchant ships in the river , formed a most glorious and exciting scene . It was also enhanced by the thought that I was nearing the great metropolis , around which so many bright but anxious hopes were centred , as the scene of my first important step into the anxious business of life , The tide , which had carried us up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we remained there during the night . Early next morning the tide rose , and we sailed away again . It was a bright mild morning . The sun came " dancing up the east " as we floated past wharfs and woodyards and old houses on the banks , past wherries and coal boats and merchant ships on the river , until we reached our destination at the Irongate Wharf , near the Tower of London . I heard St. Paul 's clock strike six just as we reached our mooring ground . Captain Orr was kind enough to allow us to make the ship our hotel during the Sunday , as it was by no means convenient for us to remove our luggage on that day . My father took me ashore and we walked to Regent 's Park . One of my sisters , who was visiting a friend in London , was residing in that neighbourhood . My father so planned his route as to include many of the most remarkable streets and buildings and sights of London . He pointed out the principal objects , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I was much struck with the beautiful freshness and luxuriant growth of the trees and shrubs in the squares ; for spring was then in its first beauty . The loveliness of Regent 's Park surprised me . The extent of the space , the brilliancy of the fresh-leaved trees , and the handsome buildings by which the park was surrounded , made it seem to me more splendid than a picture from the Arabian Nights . Under the happy aspect of a brilliant May forenoon , this first long walk through London , with all its happy attendant circumstances , rendered it one of the most vividly remembered incidents in my life . After visiting my sister and giving her all the details of the last news from home , she joined us in our walk down to Westminster Abbey . The first view of the interior stands out in my memory as one of the most impressive sights I ever Washington Irving in the Sketch Book , one of the most masterly pieces of writing that I know of I now found one of my day-dreams realised . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Patrick . We found him surrounded by paintings from his beautiful sketches from Nature . Some of them were more or less advanced in the form of exquisite pictures , which now hang on many walls , and will long commemorate his artistic life . We closed this ever memorable day by dining at a tavern at the Surrey end of Waterloo Bridge . We sat at an upper window which commanded a long stretch of the river , and from which we could see the many remarkable buildings , from St. Paul 's to Westminster Abbey and the Houses of Parliament , which lay on the other side of the Thames . On the following day my father and I set out in search of lodgings , hotels being at that time beyond our economical method of living . We succeeded in securing a tidy lodging at No. 14 Agues Place , Waterloo Road . The locality had a special attraction for me , as it was not far from that focus of interest  --  Maudslay 's factory . Our luggage was removed from the ship to the lodgings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skill as an engineer workman , were deposited in a carpenter 's workshop close at hand . I was now anxious for the interview with Maudslay . My father had been introduced to him by a mutual friend some two or three years before , and that was enough . On the morning of May the 26th we set out together , and reached his house in Westminster Road , Lambeth . It adjoined his factory . My father knocked at the door . My own heart beat fast . Would he be at home ? Would he receive us ? Yes ! he was at home ; and we were invited to enter . Mr. Maudslay received us in the most kind and frank manner . After a little conversation my father explained the object of his visit . " My son , " he said , pointing to me , " is very anxious to have the opportunity of acquiring a thorough practical knowledge of mechanical engineering , by serving as an apprentice in some such establishment as yours " " Well , " replied Maudslay , " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apprentices has been so unsatisfactory that my partner and myself have determined to discontinue to receive them  --  no matter at what premium . This was a very painful blow to myself ; for it seemed to put an end to my sanguine expectations . Mr. Maudslay knew that my father was interested in all matters relating to mechanical engineering , and he courteously invited him to go round the works . Of course I accompanied them . The sight of the workshops astonished me . They excelled all that I had anticipated . The beautiful machine tools , the silent smooth whirl of the machinery , the active movements of the men , the excellent quality of the work in progress , and the admirable order and management that pervaded the whole establishment , rendered me more tremblingly anxious than ever to obtain some employment there , in however humble a capacity . Mr. Maudslay observed the earnest interest which I and my father took in everything going on , and explained the movements of the machinery and the rationale of the proceedings in the most lively and kindly manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the factory to another that I observed the beautiful steam-engine which gave motion to the tools and machinery of the workshops . The man who attended it was engaged in cleaning out the ashes from under the boiler furnace , in order to wheel them away to their place outside . On the spur of the moment I said to Mr. Maudslay , " If you would only permit me to do such a job as that in your service , I should consider myself most fortunate ! " I shall never forget the keen but kindly look that he gave me . " So , " said he , " you are one of that sort , are you ? " I was inwardly delighted at his words . When our round of the works was concluded , I ventured to say to Mr. Maudslay that " I had brought up with me from Edinburgh some working models of steam-engines and mechanical drawings , and I should feel truly obliged if he would allow me to show them to him ? " " By all means , " said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o'clock . " I need not say how much pleased I was at this permission to exhibit my handiwork , and how anxious I felt as to the result of Mr. Maudslay 's inspection of it . I carefully unpacked my working model of the steam-engine at the carpenter 's shop , and had it conveyed , together with my drawings , on a hand-cart to Mr. Maudslay 's next morning at the appointed hour . I was allowed to place my work for his inspection in a room next his office and counting-house . I then called at his residence close by , where he kindly received me in his library . He asked me to wait until he and his partner , Joshua Field , had inspected my handiwork . I waited anxiously . Twenty long minutes passed . At last he entered the room , and from a lively expression in his countenance I observed in a moment that the great object of my long cherished ambition had been attained ! He expressed , in good round terms , his satisfaction at my practical ability as a workman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which led from his library into his beautiful private workshop , he said , " This is where I wish you to work , beside me , as my assistant workman . From what I have seen there is no need of an apprenticeship in your case . " He then proceeded to show me the collection of exquisite tools of all sorts with which his private workshop was stored . They mostly bore the impress of his own clearheadedness and common-sense . They were very simple , and quite free from mere traditional forms and arrangements . At the same time they were perfect for the special purposes for which they had been designed . The workshop was surrounded with cabinets and drawers , filled with evidences of the master 's skill and industry . Every tool had a purpose . It had been invented for some special reason . Sometimes it struck the keynote , as it were , to many of the important contrivances which enable man to obtain a complete mastery over materials . There were also hung upon the walls , or placed upon shelves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genius . There were many models explaining , step by step , the gradual progress of his teeming inventions and contrivances . The workshop was thus quite a historical museum of mechanism . It exhibited his characteristic qualities in construction . I afterwards found out that many of the contrivances preserved in his private workshop were treasured as suggestive of some interesting early passage in his useful and active life . They were kept as relics of his progress towards mechanical perfection . When he brought them out from time to time , to serve for the execution of some job in hand , he was sure to dilate upon the occasion that led to their production , as well as upon the happy results which had followed their general employment in mechanical engineering . It was one of his favourite maxims , " First , get a clear notion of what you desire to accomplish , and then in all probability you will succeed in doing it . " Another was " Keep a sharp look-out upon your materials ; get rid of every pound of material you can do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business has it to be there ? avoid complexities , and make everything as simple as possible . " Mr. Maudslay was full of quaint maxims and remarks , the result of much shrewdness , keen observation , and great experience . They were well worthy of being stored up in the mind , like a set of proverbs , full of the life and experience of men . His thoughts became compressed into pithy expressions exhibiting his force of character and intellect . His quaint remarks on my first visit to his workshop , and on subsequent occasions , proved to me invaluable guides to " right thinking " in regard to all matters connected with mechanical structure . Mr. Maudslay seemed at once to take me into his confidence . He treated me in the most kindly manner  --  not as a workman or an apprentice , but as a friend . I was an anxious listener to everything that he said ; and it gave him pleasure to observe that I understood and valued his conversation . The greatest treat of all was in store for me . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and screw-tackle , which he had made with the utmost care for his own service . They rested in a succession of drawers near to the bench where he worked . There was a place for every one , and every one was in its place . There was a look of tidiness about the collection which was very characteristic of the man . Order was one of the rules which he rigidly observed , and he endeavoured to enforce it upon all who were in his employment . He proceeded to dilate upon the importance of the uniformity of screws . Some may call it an improvement , but it might almost be called a revolution in mechanical engineering which Mr. Maudslay introduced . Before his time no system had been followed in proportioning the number of threads of screws to their diameter . Every bolt and nut was thus a speciality in itself , and neither possessed nor admitted of any community with its neighbours . To such an extent had this practice been carried that all bolts and their corresponding nuts had to be specially marked as belonging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to endless trouble and expense , as well as inefficiency and confusion ,  --  especially when parts of complex machines had to be taken to pieces for repairs . None but those who lived in the comparatively early days of machine manufacture can form an adequate idea of the annoyance , delay , and cost of this utter want of system , or can appreciate the vast services rendered to mechanical engineering by Mr. Maudslay , who was the first to introduce the practical measures necessary for its remedy . In his system of screw-cutting machinery , and in his taps and dies , and screw-tackle generally , he set the example , and in fact laid the foundation , of all that has since been done in this most essential branch of machine construction . Those who have had the good fortune to work under him , and have experienced the benefits of his practice , have eagerly and ably followed him ; and thus his admirable system has become established throughout the entire mechanical world . Mr. Maudslay kept me with him for about three hours , initiating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delight that I listened to his wise instruction . The sight of his excellent tools , which he showed me one by one , filled me with an almost painful feeling of earnest hope that I might be able in any degree to practically express how thankful I was to be admitted to so invaluable a privilege as to be in close communication with this great master in all that was most perfect in practical mechanics . When he concluded his exposition , he told me in the most kindly manner that it would be well for me to take advantage of my father 's presence in London to obtain some general knowledge of the metropolis , to see the most remarkable buildings , and to obtain an introduction to some of my father 's friends . He gave me a week for this purpose , and said he should be glad to see me at his workshop on the following Monday week . It singularly happened that on the first day my father went out with me , he encountered an old friend . He had first known him at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was tried , and afterwards at Edinburgh while he was walking the courts as an advocate , or writing articles for the Edinburgh Review . This was no other than Henry Brougham . He was descending the steps leading into St. James 's Park , from the place where the Duke of York 's monument now stands . Brougham immediately recognised my father . There was a hearty shaking of hands , and many inquiries on either side . " And what brings you to London now ? " asked Brougham . My father told him that it was about his son here , who had obtained an important position at Maudslay 's the engineer . " If I can do anything for you , " said Brougham , addressing me , " let me know . It will afford me much pleasure to give you introductions to men of science in London . " I ventured to say that " Of all the men of science in London that I most wished to see , was Mr. Faraday of the Royal Institution . " " Well , " said Brougham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We then parted . My father availed himself of the opportunity of introducing me to several of his brother artists . We first went to the house of David Wilkie , in Church Street , Kensington . We found him at home , and he received us most kindly . We next visited Clarkson Stanfield , David Roberts , and some other artists . They were much attached to my father , and had , in the early part of their career , received much kindness from him while living in Edinburgh . They all expressed the desire that I should visit them frequently . I had thus the privilege of entree to a number of pleasant and happy homes , and my visits to them while in London was one of my principal sources of enjoyment . On returning home to our lodgings that evening we found a note from Brougham , enclosing letters of introduction to Faraday and other scientific men ; and stating that if at any time he could be of service to me he hoped that I would at once make use of him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brougham 's kindly remembrance of him ; and I ? how could I be grateful enough ? not only for my father 's never-failing attention to my growth in knowledge and wisdom , but to his ever-willing readiness to help me onward in the path of scientific working and mechanical engineering . And now I was fortunate in another respect , in being admitted to the school , and I may say the friendship , of the admirable Henry Maudslay . Everything now depended upon myself , and whether I was worthy of all these advantages or not . One of the days of this most interesting and memorable week was devoted to accompanying Mr. Maudslay in a visit to Somerset House . In the Admiralty Museum , then occupying a portion of the building , was a complete set of the working models of the celebrated block-making machinery . Most of these were the result of Maudslay 's own skilful handiwork . He also designed , for the most part , this wonderful and complete series of machines . Sir Samuel Bentham and Mr. Brunel had given the idea , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These working models contained the prototypes of nearly all the modern engineer tools which have given us so complete mastery over materials , and done so much for the age we live in . It added no little to the enjoyment of this visit to hear Mr. Maudslay narrate , in his quaint and graphic language , the difficulties he had to encounter in solving so many mechanical problems . It occupied him nearly six years to design and complete these working models . They were forty-four in number  --  all masterly pieces of workmanship . To describe them was to him like living over again the most interesting and eventful part of his life . And no doubt the experience which he had thus obtained formed the foundation of his engineering fortunes . Mr. Maudslay next conducted us to the Royal Mint on Tower Hill . Here we saw many of his admirable machines at work . He had a happy knack , in his contrivances and inventions , of making " short cuts " to the object in view . He avoided complexities , did away with roundabout processes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Simplicity " was his maxim in every mechanical contrivance . His mastermind enabled him to see through and attain the end he sought by the simplest possible means . The reputation which he had acquired by his minting machinery enabled him to supply it in its improved form to the principal Governments of the world . Some of the other days of the week were occupied by my father in attending to his own professional affairs , more particularly in connection with the Earl of Cassilis  --  whose noble mansion in London , and whose castle at Colzean , on the coast of Ayrshire , contain some of my father 's finest works . The last day was most enjoyable . Mr. Maudslay invited my father , my brother Patrick , and myself , to accompany him in his beautiful small steam yacht , the Endeavour , from Westminster to Richmond Bridge , and afterwards to dine with him at the Star and Garter . I must first , however , say something of the origin of the Endeavour . Mr. Maudslay 's son , Joseph , inherited much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a beautiful arrangement of William Murdoch 's original invention of the vibrating cylinder steam-engine , and adapted it for the working of paddle-wheel steamers . He first tried the action of the arrangement in a large working model , and its use was found to be in every respect satisfactory . Mr. Maudslay resolved to give his son 's design a full-sized trial . He had a combined pair of vibrating engines constructed , of upwards of 20 horse-power , which were placed in a beautiful small steam vessel , appropriately named the Endeavour . The result was perfectly successful . The steamer became a universal favourite . It was used to convey passengers and pleasure parties from Blackfriars Bridge to Richmond . Eventually it became the pioneer of a vast progeny of vessels propelled by similar engines , which still crowd the Thames . All these are the legitimate descendants of the bright and active little Endeavour . To return to my trip to Richmond . We got on board the boat on the forenoon of May the 29th . It was one of the most beautiful days of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bright fresh green of the trees was delightful . I shall never forget the pleasure with which I beheld , for the first time , the beautiful banks of the Thames . There was at that time a noble avenue of elm trees extending along the southern bank of the river , from Westminster Bridge to Lambeth Palace ; while , on the northern side , many equally fine trees added picturesque grace to the then Houses of Parliament , while behind them were seen the great roof of Westminster Hall and the noble towers of Westminster Abbey . As we sped along we admired the ancient cedars , which gave dignity to the Bishop 's grounds , on the one side , and the elms , laburnums , and lilacs , then in full bloom , which partially shaded the quaint old mansions of Cheyne Row , on the other . Alas ! the march of improvement and the inevitable extension of the metropolis is rapidly destroying these vestiges of the olden time . The beautiful views that came into sight , as we glided up the river , kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excitement . There were so many truly picturesque and paintable objects . Patrick 's deft pencil was constantly at work , taking graphic notes of " glorious bits " Dilapidated farm-buildings , old windmills , pollarded willows , were rapidly noted , to be afterwards revisited and made immortal by his brush . There were also the fine mansions and cosy villas , partially shrouded by glorious trees , with their bright velvety lawns sloping down towards the river ; not forgetting the delicate streams of thin blue smoke rising lazily through the trees in the tranquil summer air , and reminding one of the hospitable preparations then in progress . We landed at Richmond Bridge , and walked up past the quaint old-fashioned mansions which gave so distinct a character to Richmond at that time . We then passed on to the celebrated Richmond Terrace , at the top of the hill , from which so glorious a view of the windings of the Thames is seen , with the luxuriant happy-looking landscape around . The enjoyment of this glorious day now reached its climax . We dined in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observed a view almost unmatched in the world , with the great tower of Windsor in the distance . I need not speak of the entertainment , which was everything that the kindest and most genial hospitality could offer . After a pleasant stroll in the Park , amidst the noble and venerable oak trees , which give such a dignity to the place , and after another visit to the Terrace , where we saw the sun set in a blaze of glory beyond the distant scenery , we strolled down the hill to the steamer , and descended the Thames in the cool of the summer evening . I must not , however , omit to mention the lodgings taken for me by my father before he left London . It was necessary that they should be near Maudslay 's works for the convenience of going and coming . We therefore looked about in the neighbourhood of Waterloo Road . One of the houses we visited was situated immediately behind the Surrey theatre . It seemed a very nice tidy house , and my father seemed to have taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the room where I was to sleep , he observed an ultra-gay bonnet lying on the bed , with flashy bright ribbons hanging from it . This sight seemed to alter his ideas , and he did not take the lodgings ; but took another where there was no such bonnet . I have no doubt about what passed through his mind at the time . We were in the neighbourhood of the theatre . There was evidently some gay young woman about the house . He thought the position might be dangerous for his son . I afterwards asked him why we had not taken that nice lodging . " Well , " he said , " did not you see that ultra-gay bonnet lying on the bed ? I think that looks rather suspicious ! " Afterwards he added , " At all events , James , you will find that though there are many dirty roads in life , if you use your judgment you may always be able to find a clean crossing ! " And so the good man left me . After an affectionate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London to work out the plan of my life . CHAPTER 8 . Maudslay 's Private Assistant On the morning of Monday , the 30th of May 1829 , I commenced my regular attendance at Mr. Maudslay 's workshop . My first job was to assist him in making some modifications in the details of a machine which he had contrived some years before for generating original screws . I use the word " generating " as being most appropriate to express the objects and results of one of Mr. Maudslay 's most original inventions . It consisted in the employment of a knife-edged hardened steel instrument , so arranged as to be set at any required angle , and its edge caused to penetrate the surface of a cylindrical bar of soft steel or brass . This bar being revolved under the incisive action of the angularly placed knife-edged instrument , it thus received a continuous spiral groove cut into its surface . It was then in the condition of a rudimentary screw ; the pitch , or interval between the threads , being determined by the greater or less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with respect to the axis of the cylindrical bars revolving under its incisive action . The spiral groove , thus generated , was deepened to the required extent by a suitable and pointed hard steel tool firmly held in the jaws of an adjustable slide made for the purpose , as part and parcel of the bed of the machine . In the case of square-threaded screws being required , a square-pointed tool was employed in place of the V or angle-threaded tool . And in order to generate or produce right hand or left hand screws , all that was necessary was to set the knife-edged instrument to a right or left hand inclination in respect to the axis of the cylindrical bar at the outset of the operation . This beautiful and truly original contrivance became , in the hands of its inventor , the parent of a vast progeny of perfect screws , whose descendants , whether legitimate or not , are to be found in every workshop throughout the world , wherever first-class machinery is constructed . The production of perfect screws was one of Maudslay 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a type of his invaluable faculty of solving the most difficult problems by the most direct and simple methods . It was by the same method that he produced the Guide screw . His screw-cutting lathe was moved by combination wheels , and by its means he could , by the one Guide screw , obtain screws of every variety of pitch and diameter . As an illustration of its complete accuracy I may mention that by its means a screw of five feet in length and two inches in diameter was cut with fifty threads to the inch ; the Nut to fit on to it being twelve inches long , and containing six hundred threads ! This screw was principally used for dividing scales for astronomical and other metrical purposes of the highest class . By its means divisions were produced with such minuteness that they could only be made visual by a microscope . This screw was sent for exhibition to the Society of Arts . It is still preserved with the utmost care at the Lambeth Works amongst the many admirable specimens of Henry Maudslay 's inventive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoy the sight of it , especially when he knows that it was not produced by an exceptional tool , but by the machine that was daily employed in the ordinary work of the factory . I must not , however , omit to say that I took an early opportunity of presenting Brougham 's letter of introduction to Faraday at the Royal Institution . I was received most cordially by that noble-minded man , whose face beamed with goodness and kindness . After some pleasant conversation he said he would call upon me at Maudslay 's , whom he knew very well . Not long after Faraday called , and found me working beside Maudslay in his beautiful little workshop . A vice had been fitted up for me at the bench where he himself daily worked . Faraday expressed himself as delighted to find me in so enviable a position . He congratulated me on my special good fortune in having the inestimable advantage of being associated as assistant workman with one of the greatest mechanical engineers of the day . Mr. Maudslay offered to conduct Faraday through his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I was much impressed with the intelligent conversation of Faraday , as well as with the quickness he exhibited in appreciating not only the general excellence of the design and execution of the works in progress , but his capacity for entering into the technical details of the composite tools and machinery which he saw during his progress through the place . This most pleasant and memorable meeting with the great philosopher initiated a friendship which I had the good fortune to continue until the close of his life . It was , of course , an immense advantage for me to be so intimately associated with Mr. Maudslay in carrying on his experimental work . I was not , however , his apprentice , but his assistant workman . It was necessary , therefore , in his opinion , that I should receive some remuneration for my services . Accordingly , at the conclusion of my first week in his service , he desired me to go to his chief cashier and arrange with him for receiving whatever amount of weekly wages I might consider satisfactory . I went to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cashier , a most worthy man footnote ... I may mention that he was brother to Dr. Thomas Young , the celebrated natural philosopher . ... Knowing as I did the great advantages of my situation , and having a very modest notion of my own worthiness to occupy it , I said , in answer to Mr. Young 's question as to the amount of wages I desired , that " if he did not think ten shillings a week too much I could do well enough with that . " " Very well " said he , " let it be so " And he handed me over half a sovereign ! I had determined , after I obtained a situation , not to cost my father another shilling . I knew how many calls he had upon him , at a time when he had his own numerous household to maintain . I therefore resolved , now that I had begun life on my own resources , to maintain myself , and to help him rather than be helped any longer . Thus the first half-sovereign I received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was the first wages , as such , that I had ever received . I well remember the high satisfaction I felt as I carried it home to my lodgings ; and all the more so as I was quite certain that I could , by strict economy and good management , contrive to make this weekly sum of ten shillings meet all my current expenses . I had already saved the sum of #20 , which I placed in the bank as a deposit account . It was the residue of the sale of some of my model steam-engines at Edinburgh . My readers will remember that I brought with me a model steam-engine to show to Mr. Maudslay as a specimen of my handiwork . It had gained for me the situation that I desired , and I was now willing to dispose of it . I found a purchaser in Mr. Watkins , optician at Charing Cross , who supplied such apparatus to lecturers at Mechanics ' Institutions . He gave me #35 for the model , and I added the sum to my deposit account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenses beyond those of a current weekly nature . Image My cooking stove* footnote ... I have this handy apparatus by me still ; and to prove its possession of its full original efficiency I recently set it in action after its rest of fifty years , and found that it yielded results quite equal to my grateful remembrance of its past services . ... But I was resolved that my wages alone should maintain me in food and lodging . I therefore directed my attention to economical living . I found that a moderate dinner at an eating-house would cost move than I could afford to spend . In order to keep within my weekly income I bought the raw materials and cooked them in my own way and to my own taste . I set to and made a drawing of a very simple , compact , and handy cooking apparatus . I took the drawing to a tinsmith near at hand , and in two days I had it in full operation . The apparatus cost ten shillings , including the lamp . As it contributed in no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and as it may serve as a lesson to others who have an earnest desire to live economically , I think it may be useful to give a drawing and a description of my cooking stove . The cooking or meat pan rested on the upper rim of the external cylindrical case , and was easily removable in order to be placed handy for service . The requisite heat was supplied by an oil lamp with three small single wicks , though I found that one wick was enough . I put the meat in the pot , with the other comestibles , at nine o'clock in the morning . It simmered away all day , until half-past six in the evening , when I came home with a healthy appetite to enjoy my dinner . I well remember the first day that I set the apparatus to work . I ran to my lodging , at about four P.M. , to see how it was going on . When I lifted the cover it was simmering beautifully , and such a savoury gusto came forth that I was almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time had not yet come , and I ran back to my work . The meat I generally cooked in it was leg of beef , with sliced potato , bits of onion chopped down , and a modicum of white pepper and salt , With just enough of water to cover " the elements . " When stewed slowly the meat became very tender ; and the whole yielded a capital dish , such as a very Soyer might envy . It was partaken of with a zest that , no doubt , was a very important element in its savouriness . The whole cost of this capital dinner was about 4 1/2d . I sometimes varied the meat with rice boiled with a few raisins and a pennyworth of milk . My breakfast and tea , with bread , cost me about fourpence each . My lodgings cost 3s. 6d. a week . A little multiplication will satisfy any one how it was that I contrived to live economically and comfortably on my ten shillings a week . In the following year my wages were raised to fifteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ butter to my bread . To return to my employment under Mr. Maudslay . One of the first jobs that I undertook was in assisting him to make a beautiful small model of a pair of 200 horsepower marine steam-engines . The engines were then in course of construction in the factory . They were considered a bold advance on the marine engines then in use , not only in regard to their great power , but in carrying out many specialities in their details and general structure . Mr. Maudslay had embodied so much of his thought in the design that he desired to have an exact model of them placed in his library , so as to keep a visible record of his ideas constantly before him . In fact , these engines might be regarded as the culmination of his constructive abilities . In preparing the model it was necessary that everything should be made in exact conformity with the original . There were about three hundred minute bolts and nuts to be reduced to the proportional size . I esteemed it a great compliment to be entrusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cast-steel , and the nuts had to be cut to exact hexagonal form . Many of them had collars . To produce them by the use of the file in the ordinary mode would not only have been difficult and tedious , but in some cases practically impossible . Image Collar-nut cutting machine . To get rid of the difficulty I suggested to Mr. Maudslay a contrivance of my own by means of which the most rigid exactness in size as well as form could be given to these hexagonal nuts . He readily granted his permission . I constructed a special apparatus , consisting of a hard steel circular cutter to act as a circular file . When brought into operation in the production of these minute six-sided collared nuts , held firm in the spindle of a small dividing plate and attached to the slide-rest , each side was brought in succession under the action of the circular file or cutter with the most exact precision in regard to the division of the six sides . The result was absolutely perfect as respects the exactness of the six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their precise position in regard to the collar that was of one solid piece with it . There was no great amount of ingenuity required in contriving this special tool , or in adapting it to the slide-rest of the lathe , to whose spindle end the file or cutter / was fixed . But the result was so satisfactory , both as regards the accuracy and rapidity of execution in comparison with the usual process of hand filing , that Mr. Maudslay was greatly pleased with the arrangement as well as with my zeal in contriving and executing this clever little tool . An enlarged edition of this collar-nut cutting machine was soon after introduced into the factory . Image Arrangement of the machine It was one of the specialities that I adopted in my own workshop when I commenced business for myself , and it was eagerly adopted by mechanical engineers , whom we abundantly supplied with this special machine . It was an inestimable advantage to me to be so intimately associated with this Great Mechanic . He was so invariably kind , pleasant , and congenial . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Wrinkles " which afterwards proved of great use to me . My working hours usually terminated at six in the evening . But as many of the departments of the factory were often in full operation during busy times until eight o'clock , I went through them to observe the work while in progress . On these occasions I often met " the guvnor , as the workmen called Mr. Maudslay . He was going his round of inspection , and when there was any special work in hand he would call me up to him to and explain point in connection with it that was worthy of particular notice . I found this valuable privilege most instructive , as I obtained from the cheif mechanic himself a full insight into the methods , means , and processes by which the skilful workman advanced the various classes of work . I was also permitted to take notes and make rapid sketches of any object that specially interested me . The entire establishment thus became to me a school of practical engineering of the most instructive kind . Mr. Maudslay took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treating all manner of materials employed in mechanical structures . He showed how they might be made to obey your will , by changing them into the desired forms with the least expenditure of time and labour . This in fact is the true philosophy of construction . When clear ideas have been acquired upon the subject , after careful observation and practice , the comparative ease and certainty with which complete mastery over the most obdurate materials is obtained , opens up the most direct road to the attainment of commercial as well as of professional success . To be permitted to stand by and observe the systematic way in which Mr. Maudslay would first mark or line out his work , and the masterly manner in which he would deal with his materials , and cause them to assume the desired forms , was a treat beyond all expression . Every stroke of the hammer , chisel , or file , told as an effective step towards the intended result . It was a never-to-be-forgotten practical lesson in workmanship , in the most exalted sense of the term . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a right way and a wrong way of doing everything , " he took the shortest and most direct cuts to accomplish his objects . He illustrated this by telling me , in his own humorous style , " When you want to go from London to Greenwich , do n't go round by Inverness . " Another of his droll sayings was that he " considered no man a thorough mechanic unless he could cut a plank with a gimlet , and bore a hole with a saw ! " The grand result of thoughtful practice is what we call experience : it is the power or faculty of seeing clearly before you begin , what to avoid and what to select  --  or rather what to do and what not to do . High-class workmanship , or technical knowledge , was in his hands quite a science . Every piece of work was made subject to the soundest philosophical principles , as applied to the use and treatment of materials . It was this that gave such a charm of enjoyment to his dealing with tools and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own sake , far more than for its pecuniary results . At the same time he was not without regard for the substantial evidence of his supremacy in all that regarded first-class tools , admirable management , and thorough organisation of his factory . The innate love of truth and accuracy which distinguished Mr. Maudslay , led him to value highly that class of technical dexterity in engineering workmen which enabled them to produce those details of mechanical structures in which perfect flat or true plane surfaces were required . This was an essential condition for the effective and durable performance of their functions . Sometimes this was effected by the aid of the turning-lathe and slide-rest . But in most cases the object was attained by the dexterous use of the file , so that " flat filing " then was , as it still is , one of the highest qualities of the skilled workman . No one that I ever met with could go beyond Henry Maudslay himself in his dexterous use of the file . By a few masterly strokes he could produce plane surfaces so true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surface of absolute truth , they were never found defective ; neither convex , nor concave , nor " cross-winding , "  --  that is , twisted . The importance of having such Standard Planes caused him to have many of them placed on the benches beside his workmen , by means of which they might at once conveniently test their work . Three of each were made at a time , so that by the mutual rubbing of each on each the projecting surfaces were effaced . When the surfaces approached very near to the true plane , the still projecting minute points were carefully reduced by hard steel scrapers , until at last the standard plane surface was secured . When placed over each other they would float upon the thin stratum of air between them until dislodged by time and pressure . When they adhered closely to each other , they could only be separated by sliding each off each . This art of producing absolutely plane surfaces is , I believe , a very old mechanical " dodge . " But , as employed by Maudslay 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work turned out . It was used for the surfaces of slide valves , or wherever absolute true plane surfaces were essential to the attainment of the best results , not only in the machinery turned out , but in educating the taste of his men towards first-class workmanship . Maudslay 's love of accuracy also led him to distrust the verdicts given by the employment of the ordinary callipers and compasses in determining the absolute or relative dimensions of the refined mechanism which he delighted to construct with his own hands . So much depended upon the manner in which the ordinary measuring instruments were handled and applied that they sometimes failed to give the required verdict as to accuracy . In order , therefore , to get rid of all difficulties in this respect , he designed and constructed a very compact and handy instrument which he always had on his bench beside his vice . He could thus , in a most accurate and rapid manner , obtain the most reliable evidence as to the relative dimensions , in length , width , or diameter , of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the absolute truth of the verdicts of the instrument , he considered it as a Court of Final Appeal , and humorously called it " The Lord Chancellor . " Image Maudslay 's " Lord Chancellor " This trustworthy " Companion of the Bench " consisted of a very substantial and inflexible bed or base of hard brass . At one end of it was a perfectly hardened steel surface plate , having an absolutely true flat or plane face , against which one end or side of the object to be measured was placed ; whilst a similar absolutely true plane surface of hardened steel was advanced by means of a suitable fine thread screw , until the object to be measured was just delicately in contact with it . The object was , as it were , between the jaws of a vice , but without any squeeze  --  being just free , which could be easily ascertained by feeling . These two absolutely plane surfaces , between which the object lay , had their distances apart easily read off from the scale engraved on the bed of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while the disk-head or handle of the screw was divided on its edge rim into hundredth or thousandth parts , as these bore an exact metrical relation to the pitch of the screw that moved the parallel steel faces of the measuring vice ( as I may term it ) nearer or farther apart . Not only absolute measure could be obtained by this means , but also the amount of minute differences could be ascertained with a degree of exactness that went quite beyond all the requirements of engineering mechanism ; such , for instance , as the thousandth part of an inch ! It might also have been divided so far as a millionth part of an inch , but these infinitesimal fractions have really nothing to do with the effective machinery* footnote ... I may mention another saying of Mr. Maudslay 's . Besides his observation that " in going from London to Greenwich we must not go round by Inverness , " he said , " We must not become too complicated with our machinery . Remember the get-at-ability of parts . If we go on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boiling our eggs with a chronometer ! " ... that comes forth from our workshops , and merely show the mastery we possess over materials and mechanical forms . The original of this measuring machine of Maudslay 's was exhibited at the Loan Collection at South Kensington in 1878 . It is now treasured up , with other relics of his handiwork , in a cabinet at the Lambeth works . While writing upon this subject it may be worthy of remark , that the employment of a screw as the means of adjusting the points or reference marks of a measuring instrument , for the ascertainment of minute distances between objects , was first effected by William Gascoigne , about the year 1648 . There can be no doubt that he was the inventor of the Micrometer  --  an instrument that , when applied ( as he first did so ) to the eye-piece of the Telescope , has been the means of advancing the science of astronomy to its present high position ( See Grant 's History of Astronomy , p. 453 ) I had abundant occupation for my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over . I had not only the opportunity of studying mechanics , but of studying men . It is a great thing to know the character of those who are over you as well as those who are under you . It is also well to know the character of those who are associated with you in your daily work . I became intimate with the foremen and with many of the skilled workmen . From them I learnt a great deal . Let me first speak of the men of science who occasionally frequented Maudslay 's private workshop . They often came to consult him on subjects with which he was specially acquainted . Among Mr. Maudslay 's most frequent visitors were General Sir Samuel Bentham , Mr. Barton , director of the Royal Mint , Mr. Bryan Donkin , Mr. Faraday , and Mr. Chantrey , the sculptor . As Mr. Maudslay wished me to be at hand to give him any necessary assistance , I had the opportunity of listening to the conversation between him and these distinguished visitors . Sir Samuel Bentham called very often . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the block machinery . He was brother of the celebrated Jeremy Bentham , and he applied the same clear common-sense to mechanical subjects which the other had done to legal , social , and political questions . It was in the highest degree interesting and instructive to hear these two great pioneers in the history and application of mechanics discussing the events connected with the block-making machinery . In fact , Maudslay 's connection with the subject had led to the development of most of our modern engineering tools . They may since have been somewhat altered in arrangement , but not in principle . Scarcely a week passed without a visit from the General . He sat in the beautiful workshop , where he always seemed so happy . It was a great treat to hear him and Maudslay " fight their battles o'er again , " in recounting the difficulties , both official and mechanical , over which they had so gloriously triumphed . At the time when I listened to their conversation , the great work in hand was the organisation of a systematic series of experiments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determining the laws of resistance on their being propelled through the sea by a power other than those of winds and sails . The subject was as complex as it was interesting and important . But it had to be put to the test of actual experiment . This was done in the first place by large models of hulls , so as to ascertain at what point the curves of least resistance could be applied . Their practical correctness was tested by careful experiment in passing them through water at various velocities , to record which conditions special instruments were contrived and executed . These , as well as the preparation of large models of hulls , embodying the various improved " lines , " occupied a considerable portion of the time that I had the good fortune to spend in Mr. Maudslay 's private workshop . Mr. Barton of the Royal Mint was quite a " crony " of Maudslay 's . He called upon him often with respect to the improvements for stamping the current coin of the realm . Bryan Donkin was also associated with Maudslay and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yard measure . But perhaps Mr. Chantrey was the most attractive visitor at the private workshop . He had many a long interview with Maudslay with respect to the planning and arranging of a small foundry at his studio , by means of which he might cast his bronze statues under his own superintendence . Mr. Maudslay entered con amore into the subject , and placed his skill and experience entirely at Chantrey 's service . He constructed the requisite furnaces , cranes , and other apparatus , at Chantrey 's studio ; and it may be enough to state that , when brought into operation , they yielded the most satisfactory results . Among my most intelligent private friends in London were George Cundell and his two brothers . They resided near my lodgings , and I often visited them on Saturday evenings . They were most kind , gentle , and genial . The eldest brother was in Sir William Forbes 's bank . George was agent for Mr. Patrick Maxwell Stuart in connection with his West India estates , and the third brother was his assistant . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he treated us during these Saturday evenings with noble music from Beethoven and Mozart . My special friend George was known amongst us as " the worthy master . " He was thoroughly versed in general science , and was moreover a keen politician . He had the most happy faculty of treating complex subjects , both in science and politics , in a thoroughly common-sense manner . His two brothers had a fine feeling for art , and , indeed , possessed no small skill as practical artists . With companions such as these , gifted with a variety of tastes , I spent many of my Saturday evenings most pleasantly and profitably . They were generally concluded with a glass of beer of " the worthy master 's " own brewing . When the season of the year and the state of the weather were suitable I often joined this happy fraternity in long and delightful Sunday walks to various interesting places round London . Our walks included Waltham Abbey , Waltham Cross , Eltham Palace , Hampton Court , Epping Forest , and many other interesting places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resort was Westminster Abbey , where , besides the beautifully-conducted service and the noble anthems , I could admire the glory of the architecture , and the venerable tombs , under which lay the best and bravest . I used generally to sit at a point from which I could see the grand tomb of Aylmer de Vallance with its magnificent surroundings of quaint and glorious architecture . It was solemn , and serious also , to think of the many generations who had filled the abbey , and of the numbers of the dead who lay beneath our feet . I was so great an admirer of Norman and Gothic architecture that there was scarcely a specimen of it in London which I did not frequently visit . One of the most interesting examples I found in the Norman portion of St. Saviours Church , near London Bridge , through some of it has since been destroyed by the so-called " restoration " in 1831 . The new work has been executed in the worst taste and feeling . I also greatly admired the Norman chapel of the Tower , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Less , near Smithfield . No style of architecture that I have ever seen has so impressed me with its intrinsic gravity , and I may say solemnity , as that of the Norman . There is a serious earnestness in its grave simplicity that has a peculiar influence upon the mind ; and I have little doubt that this was felt , and understood by those true architects who designed and built the noble cathedrals at Durham and elsewhere . But there , as elsewhere , some of our modern so-called " Architects " have made sad havoc with the earliest and most impressive portions of those grand and truly interesting remains , by their " Restorations " , as they term it  --  but which I call Defamations . CHAPTER 9 . Holiday in the Manufacturing Districts . In the autumn of 1830 Mr. Maudslay went to Berlin for the purpose of superintending the erection of machinery at the Royal Mint there . He intended to be absent from London for about a month ; and he kindly permitted me to take my holiday during that period . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapers of the locomotive competition at Rainhill , near Liverpool . I was , therefore , exceedingly anxious to see Stephenson 's " Rocket , " the engine that had won the prize . Taking with me letters of introduction from Mr. Maudslay to persons of influence at Liverpool , I left London for the north on the afternoon of Saturday the 9th of September 1830 . I took my place on the outside of the Liverpool coach , which set out from " The Swan with Two Necks , " in Lad Lane , City , one of the most celebrated coach-offices in those days The first part of the journey to Liverpool was very dismal . The night was wet . The rain came pouring down , and no sort of wrappings could keep it out . The outside passengers became thoroughly soaked . On we went , however , as fast as four horses could carry us . Next morning we reached Coventry , when the clouds cleared away , and the sun at last burst forth . I could now enjoy this charming part of old England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the quaint streets and ancient buildings of the town I was perfectly delighted with the specimens of ancient domestic architecture which I saw . At that time Coventry was quite a museum of that interesting class of buildings . The greater part of them have since been swept away in the so-called improvement of modern builders , none of whose works can ever so attract an artistic eye . During the rest of the day the journey was delightful . Though the inside passengers had had the best of it during the night , the outside passengers had the best of it now . To go scampering across the country on the top of the coach , passing old villages , gentlemen 's parks , under old trees , along hedges tinged with autumn tints , up hill and down dale , sometimes getting off the coach to lighten the load , and walking along through the fields by a short cut to meet it farther on ; all this was most enjoyable . It gave me a new interest in the happier aspects of English scenery , and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we passed on our way . Indeed , there was everything to delight the eye of the lover of the picturesque during the course of that bright autumnal day . The coach reached Liverpool on Sunday night . I took up my quarters at a commercial inn in Dale Street , where I found every comfort which I desired at moderate charges . Next morning , without loss of time , I made my way to the then terminus of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway ; and there , for the first time , I saw the famous " Rocket " The interest with which I beheld this distinguished and celebrated engine was much enhanced by seeing it make several short trial trips under the personal management of George Stephenson , who acted as engineman , while his son Robert acted as stoker . During their trips of four or five miles along the line the " Rocket " attained the speed of thirty miles an hour  --  a speed then thought almost incredible ! It was to me a most memorable and interesting sight , especially to see the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that was to effect so great a change in the communications of the civilised world . I spent the entire day in watching the trial trips , in examining the railway works , and such portions of of their details as I could obtain access to . About mid-day the " Rocket " was at rest for about an hour near where I stood ; and I eagerly availed myself of the opportunity of making a careful sketch of the engine , which I still preserve . The line was opened on the 15th of September , when the famous " Rocket " led the way in conducting the first train of passengers from Liverpool to Manchester . There were present on that occasion thousands of spectators , many of whom had come from distant parts of the kingdom to witness this greatest of all events in the history of railway locomotion . During my stay in Liverpool I visited the vast range of magnificent docks which extend along the north bank of the Mersey , all of which were crowded with noble merchant ships , some taking in cargoes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sugar , tobacco , and foreign produce . The sight was most interesting , and gave me an impressive idea of the mighty functions of a manufacturing nation  --  energy and intelligence , working through machinery , increasing the value of raw materials and enabling them to be transported for use to all parts of the civilised world . Mr. Maudslay having given me a letter of introduction to his old friend William Fawcett , head of the firm of Fawcett , Preston , and Company , engineers , I went over their factory . They were engaged in producing sugar mills for the West Indies , and also in manufacturing the steam-engines for working them . The firm had acquired great reputation for their workmanship ; and their shops were crowded with excellent specimens of their skill . Everything was in good order ; their assortment of machine tools was admirable . Mr. Fawcett , who accompanied me , was full in his praises of my master , whom he regarded as the greatest pioneer in the substitution of the unerring accuracy of machine tools for the often untrustworthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referring to the personal appearance and manner of this excellent gentleman , William Fawcett . His peculiar courteous manner , both in speech and action , reminded me of the " grand old Style " Which I had observed in some of my father 's oldest noble employers , and the representations given of them by some of our best actors . There was also a dignified kindliness about his manner that was quite peculiar to himself ; and when he conducted me through his busy workshops , the courtly yet kindly manner in which he addressed his various foremen and others , was especially cheering . When I first presented my letter of introduction from Henry Maudslay , he was sitting at a beautiful inlaid escritoire table with his letters arrayed before him in the most neat and perfect order . The writing table stood on a small Turkey carpet apart from the clerks ' desks in the room , but so near to them that he could readily communicate with them . His neat old-fashioned style of dress quite harmonised with his advanced age , and the kindly yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me as a most interesting specimen of " the fine old English gentleman , quite of the olden time . " I spent another day in crossing the Mersey to Birkenhead  --  then a very small collection of buildings  --  wandered about the neighbourhood . I had my sketch-book with me , and made a drawing of Liverpool from the other side of the river . Close to Birkenhead were some excellent bits of scenery , old and picturesque farmhouses , overshadowed with venerable oaks , with juttings-out of the New Red Sandstone rocks , covered with heather , furze , and broom , with pools of water edged with all manner of effective water plants . They formed capital subjects for the artistic pencil , especially when distant peeps of the Welsh hills came into the prospect . I made several sketches , and they kept company with my graphic memoranda of architectural and mechanical objects . I may here mention that on my return to London I showed them to my brother Patrick , and some of them so much met his fancy that he borrowed my sketch-book and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are hanging on the walls of some of his admirers . With the desire of seeing as much as possible of all that was interesting in the mechanical , architectural and picturesque line , on my return journey to London , I determined to walk , halting here and there by the way . The season of the year and the state of the weather were favourable for my purpose . I accordingly commenced my pedestrian tour on Saturday morning , the 17th September . I set out for Manchester . It was a long but pleasant walk . I well remember , when nearing Manchester , that I sat down to rest for a time on Patricroft Bridge . I was attracted by the rural aspect of the country , and the antique cottages of the neighbourhood . The Bridgewater Canal lay before me , and as I was told that it was the first mile of the waterway that the great Duke had made , it became quite classic ground in my eyes . I little thought at the time that I was so close to a piece of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I should for twenty years carry on the most active and interesting business of my life . I reached Manchester at seven in the evening , and took up my quarters at the King 's Arms Inn , Deansgate . Next day was Sunday . I attended service in the Cathedral , then called the Old Church . I was much interested by the service , as well as by the architecture of the building . Some of the details were well worthy of attention , being very original , and yet the whole was not of the best period of Gothic architecture . Some of the old buildings about the Cathedral were very interesting . They were of a most quaint character , yet bold and effective . Much finely carved oak timber work was introduced into them ; and on the whole they gave a very striking illustration of the style of domestic architecture which prevailed in England some three or four centuries ago . On the following day I called upon Mr. Edward Tootal , of York Street . He was a well-known man in Manchester . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months before . He then kindly invited me to call upon him should I ever visit Manchester , when he would endeavour to obtain for me sight of some of the most remarkable manufacturing establishments . Mr. Tootal was as good as his word . He received me most cordially , and at once proceeded to take me to the extensive machine factory of Messrs . Sharp , Roberts , and Co . I found to my delight that a considerable portion of the establishment was devoted to the production of machine tools , a department of mechanical business then rising into the highest importance . Mr. Roberts , an admirable mechanic as well as inventor , had derived many of his ideas on the subject while working with Mr. Maudslay in London , and he had carried them out with many additions and improvements of his own contrivance . Indeed , Roberts was one of the most capable men of his time , and is entitled to be regarded as one of the true pioneers of modern mechanical mechanism . Through the kindness of Mr. Tootal I had also the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cotton mills in Manchester . I was greatly pleased with the beautiful contrivances displayed in the machinery . They were perfect examples of the highest order of ingenuity , combined with that kind of common-sense which casts aside all mere traditional forms and arrangements of parts , such as do not essentially contribute to the efficiency of the machine in the performance of its special and required purpose . I found much to admire in the design as well as in the execution of the details of the machines . The arrangement and management of the manufactories were admirable . The whole of the buildings , howsoever extensive and apparently complicated , worked like one grand and perfectly constructed machine . I was also much impressed by the keen interest which the proprietors of these vast establishments took in the minute details of their machinery , as well as by their intelligent and practical acquaintance with the technical minutiae of their business . Although many of them were men of fortune , they continued to take as deep an interest in such matters as if they were beginning life and had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be at the head of a thoroughly well-managed and prosperous establishment . No detail , be it ever so small , was beneath their care and attention . To a young man like myself , then about to enter upon a similar career of industry , these lessons were very important . They were encouraging examples of carefully thought out designs , carried into admirable results by close attention to details , ever watchful carefulness , and indomitable perseverance . I brooded over these circumstances , They filled my mind with hope . They encouraged me to go on in the path which I had selected ; and I believed that at some time or other I might be enabled to imitate the examples of zeal and industry which I had witnessed during my stay in Manchester . It was then that I bethought me of settling down in this busy neighbourhood ; and as I plodded my way back to London this thought continually occupied me . It took root in my mind and grew , and at length the idea became a reality . I did not take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I desired to pass through the most interesting and picturesque places without unduly diverging from the right direction . I wished to see the venerable buildings and cathedrals of the olden time , as well as the engineering establishments of the new . Notwithstanding my love for mechanics I still retained a spice of the antiquarian feeling . It enabled me to look back to the remote past , into the material records of man 's efforts hundreds of years ago , and contrast them with the modern progress of arts and sciences . I was especially interested in the architecture of bygone ages ; but here , alas ! arts and sciences have done nothing . Modern Gothic architecture is merely an imitation of the old , and often a very bad imitation . Even ancient domestic architecture is much superior to the modern . We can now only imitate it ; and often spoil when imitating . I left Manchester and turned my steps in the direction of Coalbrookdale . I passed through a highly picturesque country , in which I enjoyed the sight of many old timber houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lay through Whitchurch , Wem , and Wellington ; then past the Wrekin to Coalbrookdale . Before arriving there I saw the first iron bridge constructed in England , an object of historical interest in that class of structures . It was because of the superb quality of the castings produced at Coalbrookdale that the ironmasters there were able to accomplish the building of a bridge of that material , which before had baffled all projectors both at home and abroad I possessed a letter of introduction to the manager , and was received by him most cordially . He permitted me to examine the works . I was greatly interested at the sight of the processes of casting . Many beautiful objects were turned out for architectural , domestic , and other purposes . I saw nothing particularly novel , however , in the methods and processes of moulding and casting . The excellence of the work depended for the most part upon the great care and skill exercised by the workmen of the foundry . They seemed to vie with each other in turning out the best castings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care . I was particularly impressed with the cheerful zeal and activity of the workmen and foremen of this justly celebrated establishment . On leaving Coalbrookdale I trudged my way towards Wolverhampton . I rested at Shiffnal for the night . Next day I was in the middle of the Black Country . I had no letters of introduction to employers in Wolverhampton ; so that , without stopping there , I proceeded at once to Dudley . The Black Country is anything but picturesque . The earth seems to have been turned inside out . Its entrails are strewn about ; nearly the entire surface of the ground is covered with cinder-heaps and mounds of scoriae . The coal which has been drawn from below ground is blazing on the surface . The district is crowded with iron furnaces , puddling furnaces , and coal-pit engine furnaces . By day and by night the country is glowing with fire , and the smoke of the ironworks hovers over it . There is a rumbling and clanking of iron forges and rolling mills . Workmen covered with smut , and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glowing iron and the dull thud of forge-hammers . Amidst these flaming , smoky , clanging works , I beheld the remains of what had once been happy farmhouses , now ruined and deserted . The ground underneath them had sunk by the working out of the coal , and they were falling to pieces . They had in former times been surrounded by clumps of trees ; but only the skeletons of them remained , dead , black , and leafless . The grass had been parched and killed by the vapours of sulphurous acid thrown out by the chimneys ; and every herbaceous object was of a ghastly gray  --  the emblem of vegetable death in its saddest aspect . Vulcan had driven out Ceres . In some places I heard a sort of chirruping sound , as of some forlorn bird haunting the ruins of the old farmsteads . But no ! the chirrup was a vile delusion . It proceeded from the shrill creaking of the coal-winding chains , which were placed in small tunnels beneath the hedgeless road . I went into some of the forges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no need of introduction ; the works were open to all , for they were unsurrounded by walls . I saw the white-hot iron run out from the furnace ; I saw it spun , as it were , into bars and iron ribbands , with an ease and rapidity which seemed marvellous . There were also the ponderous hammers and clanking rolling-mills . I wandered from one to another without restraint . I lingered among the blast furnaces , seeing the flood of molten iron run out from time to time , and remained there until it was late . When it became dark the scene was still more impressive . The workmen within seemed to be running about amidst the flames as in a pandemonium ; while around and outside the horizon was a glowing belt of fire , making even the stars look pale and feeble . At last I came away with reluctance , and made my way towards Dudley . I reached the town at a late hour . I was exhausted in mind and body , yet the day had been most interesting and exciting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up in the morning early , to recommence my journey of inquiry , I made my way to the impressive ruins of Dudley Castle , the remnant of a very ancient stronghold , originally built by Dud , the Saxon . The castle is situated on a finely wooded hill ; it is so extensive that it more resembles the ruins of a town than of a single building . You enter through a treble gateway , and see the remnants of the moat , the court , and the keep . Here are the central hall , the guard , rooms , and the chapel . It must have been a magnificent structure . In the Midlands it was known as the " Castle of the Woods " Now it is abandoned by its owners , and surrounded by the Black Country . It is undermined by collieries , and even penetrated by a canal . The castle walls sometimes tremble when a blast occurs in the bowels of the mountain beneath . The town of Dudley lies quite close to the castle , and was doubtless protected by it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degrees of antiquity , and are well worthy of study , as embodying the successive periods which they represent . Their melancholy grandeur is rendered all the more impressive by the coal and iron works with which they are surrounded  - -  the olden type of buildings confronting the modern . The venerable trees struggle for existence under the destroying influence of sulphurous acid ; while the grass is withered and the vegetation everywhere blighted . I sat down on an elevated part of the ruins , and looked down upon the extensive district , with its roaring and blazing furnaces , the smoke of which blackened the country as far as the eye could reach ; and as I watched the decaying trees I thought of the price we had to pay for our vaunted supremacy in the manufacture of iron . We may fill our purses , but we pay a heavy price for it in the loss of picturesqueness and beauty . I left the castle with reluctance , and proceeded to inspect the limestone quarries in the neighbourhood . The limestone has long been worked out from underneath the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nest Hill , a mountain of limestone . The wrens have left , but the quarries are there . The walk to the hill is along green lanes and over quiet fields . I entered one of the quarries opened out in the sloping precipice , and penetrated as far as the glimmer of sunlight enabled me to see my way . But the sound of the dripping of water from the root of the cave warned me that I was approaching some deep pool , into which a false step might plunge me . I therefore kept within the light of day . An occasional ray of the sun lit up the enormous rock pillars which the quarrymen had left to support the roof . It was a most impressive sight . Having emerged from the subterranean cave , I proceeded on my way to Birmingham . I reached the town in the evening , and found most comfortable quarters . On the following day I visited some of the factories where processes were carried on in connection with the Birmingham trade . I saw the mills where sheet brass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with silver . There was nothing in these processes of novel interest , though I picked up many practical hints . I could not fail to be attracted by the dexterous and rapid manipulation of the work in hand , even by boys and girls whose quick sight and nimble fingers were educated to a high degree of perfection . I could have spent a month profitably among the vast variety of small traders in metal , of which Birmingham is the headquarters . Even in what is called " the toy trade , " I found a vast amount of skill displayed in the production of goldsmith work , in earrings , brooches , gold chains , rings , beads , and glass eyes for stuffed birds , dolls , and men . I was especially attracted by Soho , once the famous manufacturing establishment of Boulton and Watt . Although this was not the birthplace* footnote ... The birthplace of the condensing engine of Watt was the workshop in the Glasgow University , where he first contrived and used a separate condenser  --  the true and vital element in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective manhood at Soho The Newcomen engine was in fact a condensing engine , but as the condensation was effected inside the steam cylinder it was a very costly source of power in respect to steam . Watt 's happy idea of condensing in a separate vessel removed the defect . This was first done in his experimental engine in the Glasgow University workshop , and before he had made the one at Kinniel for Dr. Roebuck . ... of the condensing steam-engine it was the place where it attained its full manhood of efficiency , and became the source and origin of English manufacturing power . Watt 's engine has had a greater influence on the productive arts of mankind than any other that can be named . Boulton also was a thorough man of business , without whom , perhaps , Watt could never have made his way against the world , or perfected his magnificent invention . Not less interesting to my mind was the memory of that incomparable mechanic , William Murdoch , a man of indomitable energy , and Watt 's right-hand man in the highest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ model locomotive , and the inventor of gas for lighting purposes ; and yet he always kept himself in the background , for he was excessively modest . He was happiest when he could best promote the welfare of the great house of Boulton and Watt . Indeed he was a man whose memory ought to be held in the highest regard by all true engineers and mechanics . The sight which I obtained of the vast series of workshops of this celebrated establishment  --  filled with evidences of the mechanical genius of these master minds  --  made me feel that I was indeed on classic ground in regard to everything connected with steam-engine machinery . Some of the engines designed by Watt  --  the prototypes of the powerful condensing engines of the present day  --  were still performing their daily quota of work . There was " Old Bess , " a sort of experimental engine , upon which Watt had tried many adaptations and alterations , for the purpose of suiting it for pumping water from coal mines . There was also the engine with the sun-and-planet motion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engines were still at work . I went through the workshops , where I was specially interested by seeing the action of the machine tools . There I observed Murdoch 's admirable system of transmitting power from one central engine to other small vacuum engines attached to the individual machines they were set to work . The power was communicated by pipes led from the central air or exhaust pump to small vacuum or atmospheric engines devoted to the driving of each separate machine , thus doing away with all shafting and leather belts , the required speed being kept up or modified at pleasure without in any way interfering with the other machines .  --  This vacuum method of transmitting power dates from the time of Papin ; but until it received the masterly touch of Murdoch it remained a dead contrivance for more than a century . I concluded my visits to the workshops of Birmingham by calling upon a little known but very ingenious man , whose work I had seen before I left Edinburgh , in a beautifully constructed foot turning-lathe made by John Drain . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and completeness of the lathe , that I made it one of my chief objects to find out John Drain 's workshop . It was with some difficulty that I found him . He was little known in Birmingham . His workshops were very small ; they consisted of only one or two rooms . His exquisite lathes were not much in demand . They found their way chiefly to distant parts of the country , where they were highly esteemed . I found that he had some exquisitely finished lathes completed and in hand for engraving the steel plates for printing bank notes . They were provided with the means of producing such intricate ornamental patterns as to defy the utmost skill of the forger . Perkins had done a good deal in the same way ; but Drain 's exquisite mechanism enabled his engraving lathes to surpass anything that had before been attempted in the same line . I believe that Drain 's earnest attention to his work , in which he had little or no assistance , undermined his health , and arrested the career of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest position in his profession . I shall never forget the rare treat which his fine mechanism afforded me . Its prominent quality was absolute truth and accuracy in every part . Having now had enough of the Black Country and of Birmingham workshops , I proceeded towards London . There were no more manufacturing districts to be visited . Everything now was to be green lanes , majestic trees , old mansions , venerable castles , and picturesque scenery . There is no way of seeing a country properly except on foot . By railway you whiz past and see nothing . Even by coach the best parts of the scenery are unseen . " Shank 's naig " is the best of all methods , provided you have time . I had still some days to spare before the conclusion of my holiday . I therefore desired to see some of the beautiful scenery and objects of antiquarian interest before returning to work . I made my way across country to Kenilworth . The weather was fine , and the walk was perfect . The wayside was bordered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side of the road , and noble trees and untrinnned hedges , in their glowing autumnal tint , extended far and wide . Everything was in the most gloriously neglected and therefore highly picturesque condition . Here and there old farmhouses and labourers ' cottages peeped up from amidst the trees and hedges  - -  worthy of the landscape painter 's highest skill . I reached Kenilworth about half an hour before sunset . I made my way direct to the castle , glorious in its decay . The fine mellow glow of the setting sun lit up the grand and extensive ruins . The massive Norman keep stood up with melancholy dignity , and attracted my attention more than any other part of the ruined building . To me there is an impressiveness in the simple massive dignity of the Norman castles and cathedrals , which no other buildings possess . There is an expression of terrible earnestness about them . The last look I had of the Norman keep was grand . The elevated part was richly tinted with the last glow of the setting sun , while the outline of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was indeed a sight never to be forgotten . I waited until the sun had descended beneath the horizon , still leaving its glimmer of pink and crimson and gray , and then I betook me to the little inn in the village , where I obtained comfortable quarters for the night . I visited the ruins again in the morning . Although the glory of the previous evening had departed , I was much interested in observing the various styles of architecture adopted in different parts of the buildings  --  some old , some comparatively new . I found the older more grand and massive , and the newer , of the sixteenth century , wanting in dignity of design , and the workmanship very inferior . The reign of Shoddy had already begun before Cromwell laid the castle in ruins . In the course of the day I proceeded to Warwick . I passed along the same delightful grass-bordered roads , shaded by noble trees . I reached the grand old town , with its antique buildings and its noble castle  - -  so famous in English history . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the afternoon to trudge on to Oxford . But soon after I started the rain began to fall . It was the first interruption to my walking journey which I had encountered during my three weeks ' absence from London . As it appeared from the dark clouds overhead that a wet night had set in , I took shelter in a wayside inn at a place called Steeple Aston . My clothes were dripping wet ; and after a glass of very hot rum and water I went to bed , and had a sound sleep . Next morning it was fair and bright . After a substantial homely breakfast I set out again . Nature was refreshed by the steady rain of the previous night , and the day was beautiful . I reached Deddington and stayed there for the night , and early next morning I set out for Oxford . I was greatly excited by the first sight I had of the crowd of towers and spires of that learned and illustrious city . Nor were my expectations at all disappointed by a nearer approach to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the best of the buildings , I took in a , fair idea of the admirable details of this noble city , and left in the afternoon of next day . I visited , on my way to Thame , the old church of Iffley . I was attracted to it by the fine old Norman work it contains , which I found most quaint and picturesque . I slept at Thame for the night , and next day walked to Windsor . I arrived there at sunset , and had a fine view of the exterior of the castle and the surrounding buildings . I was , however , much disappointed on examining the architectural details . In sight of the noble trees about the castle , and the magnificent prospect from the terrace , I saw much that tended to make up for the disgust I felt at the way in which all that was so appropriate and characteristic in so historic a place as Windsor Castle should have been tampered with and rubbed out by the wretched conceit of the worst architects of our worst architectural period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for London . My time was up , but not my money . I had taken eight sovereigns on setting out from London to Liverpool by coach , and I brought one sovereign back with me . Rather than break into it I walked all the way from Windsor to London without halting for refreshment my entire expenditure during my three weeks ' journey was thus seven pounds . When I look back upon that tour , I feel that I was amply rewarded . It was throughout delightful and instructive . The remembrance of it is as clear in my mind now as if I had performed the journey last year instead of fifty years ago . There are thousands of details that pass before my mind 's eye that would take a volume to enunerate . I brought back a book full of sketches ; for graphic memoranda are much better fitted than written words to bring up a host of pleasant recollections and associations . I came back refreshed for work , and possessed by an anxious desire to press forward in the career of industry which I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Begin Business at Manchester Mr. Maudslay arrived from Berlin two days after my return to London . He , too , had enjoyed his holiday . During his stay in Berlin he had made the friendship of the distinguished Humboldt . Shenkel , the architect , had been very kind to him , and presented him with a set of drawings and engravings of his great architectural works , which Mr. Maudslay exhibited to me with much delight . What he most admired in Shenkel was the great range of his talent in all matters of design , his minute attention to detail , and his fine artistic feeling . Soon after Mr. Maudslay 's return , a very interesting job was brought to him , in which he took even more than his usual interest . It was a machine which his friend Mr. Barton , of the Royal Mint , had obtained from France . It was intended to cut or engrave the steel dies used for stamping coin . It was a remarkable and interesting specimen of inventive ingenuity . It copied any object in relief which had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artist 's original wax model . The minutest detail was transferred to soft steel dies with absolute accuracy . This remarkable machine could copy and cut steel dies either in intaglio or in cameo of any size , and , in short , enabled the mechanic who managed it to transfer the most minute and characteristic touches of the original model to the steel dies for any variety of size of coin . Nevertheless , the execution of some of the details of the machine were so defective , that after giving the most tempting proof of its capabilities at the Royal Mint , Mr. Barton found it absolutely necessary to place it in Maudslay 's hands , in order to have its details thoroughly overhauled , and made as mechanically perfect as its design and intention merited . This interesting machine was accordingly brought to the private workshop , and placed in the hands of the leading mechanic , whom I had the pleasure of being associated with , James Sherriff , one of our most skilled workmen . We were both put to our mettle . It was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so skilled a workman as Sherriff , and in constant communication with Mr. Maudslay , I had every opportunity of bringing my best manipulative ability into action and use while perfecting this beautiful machine . It is sufficient to say that by our united efforts , by the technical details suggested by Mr. Maudslay and carried out by us , and by the practical trials made under the superintendence of Mr. Wyon of the Mint , the apparatus was at length made perfect and performed its duty to the satisfaction of every one concerned . Mr. Maudslay had next a pair of 200 horse-power marine engines put in hand . His sons and partners were rather opposed to so expensive a piece of work being undertaken without an order . At that time such a power as 200 horse nominal was scarcely thought of ; and the Admiralty Board were very cautious in ordering marine engines of any sort . Nevertheless , the engines were proceeded with and perfected . They formed a noble object in the great erecting shop . They embodied in every detail all Mr. Maudslay 's latest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the great master 's inventions and adaptations in marine engines . The Admiralty at last secured them for the purpose of being placed in a very fine vessel , the Dee , then in course of construction . Mr. Maudslay was so much pleased with the result that he had a very beautiful model made of the engines ; and finding that I had some artistic skill as a draughtsman , he set me to work to make a complete perspective drawing of their great engines as they stood all perfect in the erecting-shop . This was a work entirely to my taste . In due time I completed a graphic portrait of these noble engines , treated , I hope , in an artistic spirit . Indeed , such a class of drawing was rarely to be had from any engineering draughtsman . Mere geometrical drawing could not give a proper idea , as a whole , of so grand a piece of mechanism . It required something of the artistic spirit to fairly represent it . At all events my performance won the entire approval of my master @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mechanical abilities . He was always ready to enter upon any new work requiring the exercise of special skill . It did not matter whether it was machine tools , engraving dies , block machinery , or astronomical instruments . While at Berlin he went to see the Royal Observatory . He was naturally much interested by the fine instruments there  --  the works of Repsoldt and Hertz , the pioneers of improved astronomical workmanship . The continental instrument makers were then far in advance of those of England . Mr. Maudslay was greatly impressed with the sight of the fine instruments in the Berlin Observatory . He was permitted to observe some of the most striking and remarkable of the heavenly bodies  - -  Jupiter , Saturn , and the Moon . It was almost a new revelation to him ; for the subject was entirely novel . To be able to make such instruments seemed to him to be a glorious achievement of refined mechanism and manipulative skill . He returned home full of the wonderful sights he had seen . It was a constant source of pleasure to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies . He became anxious to possess a powerful telescope of his own . His principal difficulty was in procuring a lens of considerable diameter , possessed of high perfection of defining power . I suggested to him the employment of a reflecting telescope , by means of which the difficulties connected with the employment of glass could be avoided . This suggestion was based upon some knowledge I had acquired respecting this department of refined mechanical art . I knew that the elder Herschel had by this means vastly advanced our knowledge of the heavenly bodies , indeed to an extent far beyond what had been achieved by the most perfect of glass lens instruments . Mr. Maudslay was interested in the idea I suggested ; and he requested me to show him what I knew of the art of compounding the alloy called speculum metal . He wished to know how so brittle a material could be cast and ground and polished , and kept free from flaws or defects of every kind . I accordingly cast for him a speculum of 8 inches diameter . I ground and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporary manner to exhibit its optical capabilities , which were really of no mean order . But , as his ambition was to have a grand and powerful instrument of not less than 24 inches diameter , the preparation for such a speculum became a subject to him of the highest interest . He began to look out for a proper position for his projected observatory . He made inquiry about a residence at Norwood , where he thought his instrument might have fair play . It would there be free from the smoke and disturbing elements of such a place as Lambeth . His mind was full of this idea when he was called away by the claims of affection to visit a dear old friend at Boulogne . He remained there for more than a week , until assured of his friend 's convalescence . But on his return voyage across the Channel he caught a severe cold . On reaching London he took to his bed and never left it alive . After three or four weeks ' suffering he died on the 14th of February 1831 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my dear old master . He was so good and so kind to me in all ways . He treated me like a friend and companion . He was always generous , manly , and upright in his dealings with everybody . How his workmen loved him ; how his friends lamented him ! He directed , before his death , that he should be buried in Woolwich Churchyard , where a cast iron tomb , made to his own design , was erected over his remains . He had ever a warm heart for Woolwich , where he had been born and brought up . He began his life as a mechanic there , and worked his way steadily upwards until he reached the highest point of his profession . He often returned to Woolwich after he had left it ; sometimes to pay a share of his week 's wages to his mother , while she lived ; sometimes to revisit the scenery of his youth . He liked the green common , with the soldiers about it ; Shooter 's Hill , with its wide look-out over Kent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ busy with shipping ; the Dockyard wharf , with the royal craft loading and unloading their armaments . He liked the clangour of the arsenal smithy , where he had first learned his art ; and all the busy industry of the place . It was natural , therefore , that being so proud of his early connection with Woolwich he should wish his remains to be laid there ; and Woolwich , on its part , has equal reason to be proud of Henry Maudslay . After the death of my master I passed over to the service of his worthy partner , Joshua Field . I had an equal pleasure in working under him . His kindness in some degree mitigated the sad loss I had sustained by the death of my lamented friend and employer . The first work I had to perform for Mr. Field was to assist him in making the working drawings of a 200 horse-power condensing steam-engine , ordered by the Lambeth Waterworks Company . The practical acquaintance which I had by this time acquired of the mechanism of steam-engines enabled me to serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in full practical detail the rough but excellent hand sketches with which he supplied me . They were handed out for execution in the various parts of the factory ; and I communicated with the foremen as to the details and workmanship . While I was occupied beside Mr. Field in making these working drawings , he gave me many most valuable hints as to the designing of machinery in general . In after years I had many opportunities of making good use of them . One point he often impressed upon me . It was , he said , most important to bear in mind the get-at-ability of parts  --  that is , when any part of a machine was out of repair , it was requisite to get at it easily without taking the machine to pieces . This may appear a very simple remark , but the neglect of such an arrangement occasions a vast amount of trouble , delay , and expense . None but those who have had to do with the repair of worn-out or damaged parts of machinery can adequately value the importance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most systematic man in all business affairs . I may specially name one of his arrangements which I was quick to take up and appreciate . I carried it out with great advantage in my after life . It was , to record subjects of conversation by means of " graphic " memoranda . Almost daily , persons of note came to consult with him about machinery . On these occasions the consultations took place either with reference to proposed new work , or as to the progress of orders then in hand . Occasionally some novel scheme of applying power was under discussion , or some new method of employing mechanism : On ordinary occasions rough and rapid sketches are made on any stray pieces of waste paper that were about , and after the conversation is over the papers are swept away into the waste basket and destroyed . And yet some of these rapid drawings involve matters of great interest and importance for after consultations . To avoid such losses , Mr. Field had always placed upon his table a " talking book " or " graphic diary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with him about mechanical matters , he made rapid sketches on the successive pages of the book , and entered the brief particulars and date of the conversation , together with the name and address of the visitor . So that a conversation , once begun , might again be referred to , and , when the visitor called , the graphic memoranda might be recalled without loss of time , and the consultation again proceeded . The pages of Mr. Field 's " talking books " were in many ways most interesting . They contained data that , in future years , supplied valuable evidence in respect to first suggestions of mechanical contrivances , and which sometimes were developed into very important results . I may add that Mr. Field kept these " talking books " on a shelf in front of his drawing table . The back of each volume was marked with the year to which the entries referred , and an index was appended to each . A general index book was also placed at the end of the goodly range of these graphic records of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lambeth pumping engines occupied me until August 1831 . I had then arrived at my twenty-third year . I had no intention of proceeding further as an assistant or a journeyman . I intended to begin business for my self . Of course I could only begin in a very small way . I informed Mr. Field of my intention , and he was gratified with my decision . Not only so ; but he kindly permitted me to obtain castings of one of the best turning-lathes in the workshops . I knew th at when I had fitted it up it would become the parent of a vast progeny of descendants  --  not only in the direct line , but in planing machines , screw-cutting lathes , and many other minor tools . At the end of the month , after taking a grateful farewell of Mr. Field and his partners , I set sail for Leith with my stock of castings , and reached Edinburgh in due time . In order to proceed with the construction of my machine tools , I rented a small piece of land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my worthy friend George Douglass 's small foundry , and was only about five minutes ' walk from my father 's house . I erected a temporary workshop 24 feet long by 16 feet wide . I removed thither my father 's foot-lathe , to which I had previously added an excellent slide-rest of my own making . I also added a " slow motion , " which enabled me to turn cast-iron and cast-steel portions of my great Maudslay lathe . I soon had the latter complete and in action . Its first child was a planing machine capable of executing surfaces in the most perfect style  --  of 3 feet long by 1 foot 8 inches wide . Armed with these two most important and generally useful tools , and by some special additions , such as boring machines and drilling machines , I soon had a progeny of legitimate descendants crowded about my little workshop , so that I often did not know which way to turn . Image My temporary workshop at Edinburgh I had one labourer to drive the wheel which gave motion to my big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some one else to help me . One day a young hearty fellow called upon me . He had come from the Shotts Iron Company 's Works in Edinburgh . Having heard of what I was about , he offered his services . When he told me that he had been bred as a millwright , and that he could handle the plane and the saw as well as the chisel and the file , I closed with him at once . He was to have fifteen shillings a week . I liked the young man very much  --  he was so hearty and cheerful . His name was Archibald Torry , or " Archie , " as he was generally called during the twenty years that he remained in my service I obtained another assistant in the person of a young man whose father wished him to get an insight into practical engineering . I was offered a premium of #50 for twelve months ' experience in my workshop . I arranged to take the young man , and to initiate him in the general principles and practice of engineering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me , especially as I had engaged the millwright . It enabled me to pay Torry 's wages during the time that he remained with me in Edinburgh . I found it necessary , however , to take in some work in the regular way of business , in order to supply me with the means of completing my proper supply of tools . The chief of these extraneous and , I may say , disturbing jobs , was that of constructing a rotary steam-engine . Mr. Robert Steen had contrived and patented an engine of this sort . He was a dangerously enthusiastic man , and entertained the most visionary ideas as to steam power . He was of opinion that his own contrivance was more compact and simple , and possessed of more capability of producing power from the consumption of a given quantity of fuel , than the best steam-engines then in use . I warned him of his error ; but nothing but an actual proof would satisfy him . He urgently requested me to execute his order.He made me a liberal and tempting offer of weekly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He only required that I should give his invention the benefit of my careful workmanship . He considered that this would be sufficient to substantiate all his enthusiastic expectations . I was thus seduced to accept his order . I made the requisite drawings , and proceeded with the work . At the same time my own machine tools were in progress , though at a retarded pace . The weekly payments we 're regularly made , and I was kept in a sort of financial ease . After three months the rotary engine was finished to the inventor 's complete satisfaction . But when the power it gave out was compared with that of a good ordinary steam-engine , the verdict as to consumption of fuel was against the new rotary engine . Nevertheless , the enthusiastic projector , " tho ' vanquished he would argue still , " insisted that the merits of his contrivance would sooner or later cause it to be a most formidable rival to the crank steam-engines . As he was pleased with its performances , I had no reason to be dissatisfied . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Steen had done his . His punctual weekly payments had assisted me in the completion of my tools ; and after a few months more labour I had everything ready for starting business on my own account . My choice lay between Liverpool and Manchester . I had seen both of these cities while on my visit to Lancashire to witness the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway . I now proceeded to visit them again . I was fortified with valuable introductions to leading men in both places . I was received by them with great kindness and hospitality . I have heard a great deal about the ingratitude and selfishness of the world . It may have been my good fortune , but I have never experienced either of those unfeeling conditions . On the whole I have found a great deal of unselfish kindness among my fellow-beings . They have often turned out of their way to do me a service ; and I can never be too grateful for the unwearied kindness , civility , and generosity of the friends I met with during my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the best place to settle in  - -  Liverpool or Manchester . I had seen striking evidences of the natural aptitude of Lancashire workmen for every sort of mechanical employment , and had observed their unsparing energy while at work . I compared them with the workmen whom I had seen in London , and found them superior . They were men of greater energy of character ; their minds were more capacious ; their ingenuity was more inventive . I felt assured that in either Liverpool or Manchester  --  the centres of commercial and manipulative energy  --  I could settle down with my limited capital and tools , and in course of time contrive to get on , helped by energy , self-reliance , and determination . I also found that the demand for machine-making tools was considerable , and that their production would soon become an important department of business . It might be carried on with little expenditure of capital , as the risks were small and the returns were quick . I resolved to cultivate that moderate and safe class of mechanical business , at all events at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented my letter of introduction to Mr. Roscoe , head of the Mersey Steel and Iron Company . He received me with great kindness , and gave me much good advice . I called upon Edward Berry , engineer , and also upon William Fawcett , who had received me with so much kindness on my former visit . I can not omit mentioning also the friendly reception which I received from Dr. Sillar . He had been a medical student at Edinburgh , and had during that time met with some kindness from my father . He expressed his remembrance of it with grateful effusion ; and added his personal introduction , with that of my letters , to some of the leading men in Liverpool . I may mention that Dr. Sillar was the son of Burns 's " Brother Poet " Davie , to whom the well-known " Epistle " was addressed . Among the other well-known men to whom I was introduced at Liverpool was John Cragg , an intelligent and enterprising ironfounder . He was an extensive manufacturer of the large sugar-boiling pans used in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the introduction of iron into buildings of different sorts . Being a man of artistic taste he had even introduced cast-iron into Gothic architecture . In order to exhibit , in an impressive form , the uses of his favourite metal , he erected at his own cost a very elegant church in the northern part of Liverpool. * footnote ... So far as I can recollect , the name of the church was St. James 's . It exhibited a very early introduction of iron as an important element in architectural construction . Iron was afterwards largely introduced into mills , mill gearing , and buildings generally . ... Cast-iron was introduced , not only in the material parts of the structure , but into the Gothic columns and Gothic tracery of the windows , as well as into the lofty and elegant spire . Iron was also employed in the external ornamental details , where delicate yet effective decoration was desirable . The famous architect , Edward Blore , was the designer of the church ; and the whole details of the building  --  of which cast-iron formed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So far as I can recollect , the name of the church was St. James 's . It exhibited a very early introduction of iron as an important element in architectural construction . Iron was afterwards largely introduced into mills , mill gearing , and buildings generally . ... My introduction to Mr. Cragg led to an acquaintance , and then to a friendship . When the ice was broken which was very soon  --  he told me that he was desirous of retiring from the more active part of his business . Whether he liked my looks or not I do not know ; but , quite unexpectedly , he made me a very tempting offer to enter his works as his successor . He had already amassed a fortune , and I might do the same . I could only thank him most sincerely for his kindness . But , on carefully thinking the matter over , I declined the proposal . My principal reason was , that the special nature of his foundry work did not quite harmonise with my desire to follow the more strictly mechanical part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a brighter prospect of success before me ; though I knew that I had many difficulties to contend against . Did I throw away my chances in declining the liberal proposal of Mr. Cragg ? The reader will be able to judge from the following pages . But to the last* footnote ... Mr. Cragg died in 1853 , aged 84 . ... I continued a most friendly intercourse with my intended patron , while he on his part took an almost paternal interest in my progress . After my visit to Liverpool I passed on to Manchester . I was fortunate in having introductions to some of the leading men there ,  --  to John Kennedy , William Fairbairn , the Grant Brothers , and lastly , to that most admirable man , Benjamin Hick , engineer , Bolton . To narrate in detail all the instances of warm and hospitable kindnesses which I received from men in Lancashire , even from the outset of my career there , would fill a volume . I first went to see my friend Edward Tootal , who had given me so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received ; he now promised to befriend me , which he did most effectually . I next visited John Chippendale , of the firm of Thomson , Chippendale , and Company , calico printers . I had met him at a friend 's house in London , where he had offered , if I ever visited Manchester , to introduce me to some of the best men there . I accordingly called upon him at his counting-house . It happened to be Tuesday , the market day , when all the heads of manufacturing establishments in and round Manchester met together at the Exchange between 12 and 1 ; and thus all were brought to a focus in a very convenient manner . Mr. Chippendale first introduced me to Mr. John Kennedy , one of the most distinguished men in Manchester . I had a special letter of introduction to him from Buchanan of Catrine , and his partner Smith of Deanstone . I explained to him the object of my visit to Manchester , and he cordially entered into my views . He left his occupation at the time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought might be suitable for my workshop . The building was new at hand  --  in Dale Street , Piccadilly . It had been used as a cotton mill , but was abandoned by the owner in favour of more suitable and extensive premises . It was now let out in flats for manufacturing purposes . Power was supplied to each flat from a shaft connected with a large mill up the street , the owner of which had power to spare . The flat shown to me was 130 feet long by 27 feet wide , and the rent was only #50 a year . I thought the premises very suitable , but I took a night to sleep over it . I thanked Mr. Kennedy very much for his kindness , and for the trouble which he had taken on behalf of an unknown stranger . On this memorable day I had another introduction , through the kindness of Mr. Chippendale , which proved of great service to me . It was to the Messrs . Grant , the famous " Brothers Cheeryble " of Dickens . I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was introduced to Daniel Grant . Although business was at its full height , he gave me a cordial reception . But , to save time , he invited me to come after the Exchange was over and take " tiffin " with him at his hospitable mansion in Mosely Street . There , he said , I should meet some of the most enterprising men in Lancashire . I was most happy , of course , to avail myself of his invitation . I went thither accordingly , and the first thing that Daniel did was to present me in the most cordial manner to " his noble brother William , " as he always affectionately called him . William was the head of the firm , and he , too , gave me a warm and hearty welcome . He asked me to sit beside him at the head of the table . During dinner  --  for indeed it was such , being the survival of the old-fashioned one o'clock dinner of a departing age  --  William entered into conversation with me . He took occasion to inquire into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , as briefly as I could , that I intended to begin the business of a mechanical engineer on a very moderate scale , and that I had been looking out for premises wherein to commence operations . He seemed interested , and asked more questions . I related to him my little history , and told him of my desires , hopes , and aspirations . What was my age ? " Twenty-six . " " That is a very young age at which to begin business on your own account " " Yes ; but I have plenty of work in me , and I am very economical . " Then he pressed his questions home . " But what is your capital ? " I told him that my capital in cash was #63 . " What ! " he said , " that will do very little for you when Saturday nights come round . " " That 's true , " I answered ; " but as there will be only myself and Archy Torry to provide for , I think I can manage to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He whispered to me , " Keep your heart up ! " With such views , he said , I was sure to do well . And if , he added , on any Saturday night I wanted money to pay wages or other expenses , I would find a credit for #500 at 3 per cent at his office in Cannon Street , " and no security . " These were his very words . What could have been more generous ? I could only whisper my earnest thanks for his warm-hearted kindness . He gave me a kindly squeeze of the hand in return , which set me in a glow of gladness . He also gave me a sort of wink that I shall never forget  --  a most knowing wink . In looking at me he seemed to turn his eye round and brought his eyebrows down upon it in a sudden and extraordinary manner . I thought it was a mere confirmation of his kind advice to " keep my heart up ! " It was not until two years after that I found , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made of glass ! Sometimes the glass eye got slightly out of its place , and Mr. Grant had to force it in again by this odd contortion of his eyebrows , which I had translated into all manner of kind intentions . As soon as the party broke up I went to Wren and Bennett , the agents for the flat of the old mill which I had seen in Dale Street . I inspected it again , and found that it was in all respects suitable for my purpose . I may mention in passing that the flat below mine was in the occupation of a glass-cutter , whose glass-cutting lathes and grindstones were supplied with power from the same upright shaft that was to serve me in the same manner on the flat above , Encouraged by the support of William Grant , I immediately entered into a contract for the premises as a yearly tenant . Nothing could have been more happily arranged for my entering into business as a mechanical engineer and machine tool maker . The situation of the premises was excellent , being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crane , or hoisting apparatus , in the upper story , and the main chains came down in front of the wide door of my workshop , so that heavy castings or cases of machinery might be lifted up or let down with the utmost case and convenience . At the same time I was relieved from looking after the moving power and its natural accompaniment of trouble and expense in the way of fuel and attendance . Image My factory flat at Manchester When I had settled the contract for taking the place , I wrote down to Edinburgh by that night 's post to tell my father of the happy results of my visit to Manchester , and also to inform my right hand man , Archy Torry , that I should soon be with him . He was to prepare for packing up my lathes , planing machines , drilling machines , and other smaller tools , not forgetting my father 's foot lathe , of which I had made such effective use. * footnote ... I have still this foot-lathe in full and perfect and almost daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after sixty-three years of almost constant use . It is a lathe that I duly prize and venerate , not only because it was my father 's , but also because it was , in practical fact , the progenitor , more or less directly , of all the mechanical productions of my long and active life . ... I soon followed up my letter . I was in Edinburgh in a few days ' time , and had all my tools packed up . In the course of about ten days I returned to Manchester , and was followed by Archy Torry and the ponderous cases of machinery and engineer 's tools . They were all duly delivered , hoisted to my flat , and put in their proper places . I was then ready for work . The very first order I received was from my friend Edward Tootal . It was a new metallic piston for the small steam-engine that gave motion to his silk-winding machinery . It was necessary that it should be done over night , in order that his factory should be at work as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set to work accordingly . We removed the old defective piston , and replaced it by a new and improved one , made according to my own ideas of how so important a part of a steam-engine should be constructed . We conveyed it to Mr. Tootal 's factory over night , and by five o'clock in the morning gave it a preliminary trial to see that everything was in order . The " hands " came in at six , and the machine was set to work . It was no doubt a very small order , but the piston was executed perfectly and satisfactorily . The result of its easier action , through reduced friction , was soon observable in the smaller consumption of coal . Mr. Tootal and his brother were highly pleased at my prompt and careful attention to their little order , and it was the forerunner of better things to come . Orders soon came in . My planing machine was soon fully occupied . When not engaged in executing other work it was employed in planing the flat cast-iron inking tables for printing machines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wren and Bennett ( my landlords ) under the personal superintendence of Ebenezer Cowper , brother of the inventor , who , in conjunction with Mr. Applegath , was the first to produce a really effective newspaper printing machine . I had many small subsidiary jobs sent to me to execute . They not only served to keep my machine tools properly employed , but tended in the most effective way to make my work known to some of the best firms in Manchester , who in course of time became my employers . In order to keep pace with the influx of work I had to take on fresh hands . I established a smithy down in the cellar flat of the old mill in Dale Street , so that all forge work in iron and steel might be promptly and economically produced on the premises . There was a small iron foundry belonging to a Mr. Heath , about three minutes walk from my workshop , where I had all my castings of iron and brass done with promptness , and of excellent quality . Mr. Heath very much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fan . I had made a steam-engine in Edinburgh and brought it with me . There it lay in my workshop , where it remained unused , for I was sufficiently supplied with power from the rotating shaft . Mr. Heath offered to buy it . The engine was accordingly removed to his iron foundry , and I received my full quota of value in castings . Week by week my orders grew , and the flat of the old mill soon assumed a very busy aspect . By occasionally adding to the number of my lathes , drilling machines , and other engineers ' tools , I attracted the attention of employers . When seen in action they not only facilitated and economised the production of my own work , but became my best advertisements . Each new tool that I constructed had some feature of novelty about it . I always endeavoured after greater simplicity and perfectness of workmanship . I was punctual in all my engagements . The business proved safe and profitable . The returns were quick . Sometimes one-third of the money was paid in advance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid on delivery at my own premises . All risk of bad debts was avoided . Thus I was enabled to carry on my business with a very moderate amount of capital . My crowded workshop and the active scene it presented , together with the satisfaction my work gave to my employers , induced several persons to offer to enter into partnership with me . Sometimes it was on their own account , or for a son or relation for whom they desired an opening . But I fought shy of such proposals . It was a very riskful affair to admit as partners young men whose character for ability might be very doubtful . I was therefore satisfied to go on as before . Besides , I had the kind and disinterested offer of the Brothers Grant , which was always available , though , indeed , I did not need to make use of it . I had also the good fortune to be honoured by the friendship of Edward Lloyd , the head of the firm of Jones , Lloyd , and Co . I had some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no doubt , heard something of my industry and economy . I never asked him for any accommodation ; but on one occasion he invited me into his parlour , not to sweat me , but to give me some most kindly hints and advice as to the conduct of my financial affairs . He volunteered an offer which I could not but feel proud of . He said that I should have a credit of #1000 at my service , at the usual bank rate . He added , " As soon as you can , lay by a little capital of your own , and baste it with its own gravy ! " A receipt which I have carefully followed through life , and I am thankful to say with satisfactory results . Before I conclude this chapter , let me add something more about my kind friends the Brothers Grant . It is well that their history should be remembered , as the men who personally knew them will soon be all dead . The three brothers , William , Daniel , and John Grant , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consisted in driving cattle from the far north of Scotland to the rich pastures of Cheshire and Lancashire . The father was generally accompanied by his three sons , who marched barefoot , as was the custom of the north country lads in those days . Being shrewd fellows , they observed with interest the thriving looks and well-fed condition of the Lancashire folks . They were attracted by the print works and cotton mills which lay by the Irwell , as it crept along in its bright and rural valley towards Manchester . When passing the works of Sir Robert Peel at Nuttal , near Bury , they admired the beauty of the situation . The thought possessed them that they would like to obtain some employment in the neighbourhood . They went together in search of a situation . It is said that when they reached the crown of the hill near Walmsley , from which a beautiful prospect is to be seen , they were in doubt as to the line of road which they should pursue . To decide their course , a stick was put up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it should fall . The stick fell in the direction of Ramsbottom , then a little village in the bottom of the valley , on the river Irwell . There they went , and found employment . They were thrifty , economical , and hard-working ; and they soon saved money . Their savings became capital , and they invested it in a little print work . Their capital grew , and they went on investing it in print works and cotton mills . They became great capitalists and manufacturers ; and by their industry , ability , and integrity , were regarded as among the best men in Lancashire . As a memorial of the event which enabled them to take up their happy home at Ramsbottom , they caused to be erected at the top of Walmsley Hill a lofty tower , overlooking the valley , as a kind of public thank-offering for the prosperity and success which they had achieved in their new home . Their well-directed diligence made the valley teem with industry , activity , health , joy , and opulence . They never forgot the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their labours had contributed to their wealth , they spared no expense in providing for the moral , intellectual , and physical interests of their work-people . Whenever a worthy object was to be achieved , the Brothers Grant were always ready with their hearty and substantial help . They contributed to found schools , churches , and public buildings , and many a deserving man did they aid with their magnanimous bounty . I may also mention that they never forgot their first impression of the splendid position of the first Sir Robert Peel 's works at Nuttal . In course of time Sir Robert had , by his skill and enterprise , acquired a large fortune , and desired to retire from business . By this time the Grant Brothers had succeeded so well that they were enabled to purchase the whole of his works and property in the neighbourhood . They proceeded to introduce every improvement in the way of machinery and calico printing , and thus greatly added to the quality of their productions . Their name became associated with everything that was admirable . They abounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long years of industry , enterprise , and benevolence , they earned the goodwill of thousands , the gratitude of many , and the respect of all who knew them . I was only one of many who had cause to remember them with gratefulness . How could I acknowledge their kindness ? There was one way ; it was a very small way , but I will relate it . Soon after my introduction to the Grants , and before I had brought my tools to Manchester , William invited me to join a gathering of his friends at Ramsbottom . The church built at his cost had just been finished , and it was to be opened with great eclat on the following Sunday . He asked me to be his guest , and I accepted his invitation with pleasure . As it was a very fine day at the end of May , I walked out to Ramsbottom , and enjoyed the scenery of the district . Here was the scene of the Grant Brothers ' industry and prosperity . I met many enterprising and intelligent men , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleased with the ceremonies connected with the opening of the church . On the Monday morning William Grant , having seen some specimens of my father 's artistic skill as a landscape painter , requested me to convey to him his desire that he should paint two pictures  --  one of Castle Grant , the residence of the chief of the Clan Grant , and the other of Elgin Cathedral . These places were intimately associated with his early recollections , The brothers had been born in the village adjoining Castle Grant ; and Elgin Cathedral was one of the principal old buildings of the north . My father replied , saying that he would be delighted to execute the pictures for a gentleman who had given me so kindly a reception , but that he had no authentic data  --  no drawings , no engravings  --  from which to paint them ; and that he was now too old to visit the places . I therefore resolved to do what I could to help him to paint the pictures . As it was necessary that I should go to London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there , I went thither , and after doing my business , I embarked for Dundee by the usual steamer . I made my way from there , via Perth and Dunkeld , to Inverness , and from thence I proceeded to Elgin . I made most careful drawings of the remains of that noble cathedral . I endeavoured to include all that was most beautiful in the building and its surrounding scenery . I then went on to Castle Grant , through a picturesque and romantic country . I found the castle amidst its deep forests of pine , larch , elm , and chestnut . The building consists of a high quadrangular pile of many stories , projecting backwards at each end , and pierced with windows of all shapes and sizes . I did my best to carry away a graphic sketch of the old castle and its surroundings : and then , with my stock of drawings , I prepared to return to Inverness on foot . The scenery was grand and beautiful . The weather was fine , although after mid-day it became very hot . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obscured by a thunder-cloud ; the sky flashed with lightning , and the rain began to pour down . I was then high up on a wild looking moor , covered with heather and vast boulders . Image An extemporised shower-bath There was no shelter to be had , for not a house was in sight . I did not so much mind for my clothes , but I feared very much for my sketches . Taking advantage of the solitude , I stripped myself , put my sketches under my clothes , and thrust them into a hollow underneath a huge boulder . I sat myself down on the top of it , and there I had a magnificent shower-bath of warm rain . I never enjoyed a bath under such romantic circumstances . The thunder-clouds soon passed over my head , and the sun broke out again cheerily . When the rain had ceased I took out my clothes and drawings from the hollow , and found them perfectly dry . I set out again on my long walk to Inverness ; and reached it just in time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ness I visited the romantic Fail of Foyers ; then through Loch Lochy , past Ben Nevis to Loch Linnhe , Oban , and the Kyles of Bute , to Glasgow , and from thence to Edinburgh . I had the pleasure of placing in my father 's hands the sketches I had made . He was greatly delighted with them . They enabled him to set to work with his usual zeal , and in the course of a short time he was able to execute , con amore , the commission of the Brothers Grant . So soon as I had completed my sketches I wrote to Daniel Grant and informed him of the result of my journey . He afterwards expressed himself most warmly as to my prompt zeal in obtaining for him authentic pictures of places so dear to the brothers , and so much associated with their earliest and most cherished recollections . I have already referred to the Brothers Cowper . They were among my most attached friends at Manchester . Many of my most pleasant associations are connected with them . Edward Cowper was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine to a state of practical utility . He was afterwards connected with Mr. Applegath of London , the mechanical engineer of the Times newspaper* footnote ... Mr. Koeig 's machines , first used at the Times office , were patented in 1814 . They were too complicated and expensive , and the inking was too imperfect for general adoption . They were superseded by Mr. Edward Cowper 's machine , which he invented and patented in 1816 . He afterwards added the inking roller and table to the common press . The effect of Mr. Cowper 's invention was to improve the quality and speed of printing , and to render literature accessible to millions of readers . ... he invented for the proprietors a machine that threw off from 4500 to 5000 impressions in the hour . In course of time the Brothers Cowper removed the manufacture of their printing machines from London , to Manchester . There they found skilled and energetic workmen , ready to carry their plans into effect . They secured excellent premises , supplied with the best modern machine tools , in the buildings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from my workshop , which I rented from the same landlords . I had much friendly intercourse with the Cowpers , especially with Ebenezer the younger brother , who took up his residence at Manchester for the purpose of specially superintending the manufacture of printing machines . These were soon in large demand , not only for the printing of books but of newspapers . One of the first booksellers who availed himself of the benefits of the machine was Mr. Charles Knight , who projected the Penny Magazine of 1832 , and sold it to the extent of about 180,000 copies weekly . It was also adopted by the Messrs . Chambers of Edinburgh , and the proprietors of the Magasin Pittoresque of Paris . The Universities of Oxford and Cambridge also used Cowper 's machine in printing vast numbers of bibles and prayer-books , thereby reducing their price to one-third of the former cost . There was scarcely a newspaper of any importance in the country that was not printed with a Cowper 's machine . As I possessed some self-acting tools that were specially suited to execute some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine , the Messrs . Cowper transferred their execution to me . This was a great advantage to both . They were relieved of the technical workmanship ; while I kept my men and machine tools fully employed at times when they might otherwise have been standing idle . Besides , I derived another advantage from my connection with the Brothers Cowper , by having frequent orders to supply my small steam-engines , which were found to be so suitable for giving motion to the printing machines . At first the machines were turned by hand , and very exhausting work it was ; but the small steam-engine soon relieved the labourer from his heavy work . Edward frequently visited Manchester to arrange with his brother as to the increasing manufacture of the printing machines , and also to introduce such improvements in the minor details as the experience and special requirements of the printing trade suggested . It was on these occasions that I had the happy opportunity of becoming intimately acquainted with him ; and this resulted in a firm friendship which continued until the close of his admirable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by some happy special faculty , he could catch up the essential principles and details of any mechanical combination , however novel the subject might be , was remarkable ; and the quaint and humorous manner in which he treated all such subjects , in no small degree caused his shrewd and intelligent remarks to take a lasting hold of the memory . On many occasions Edward Cowper gave Friday evening lectures on technical subjects at the Royal Institution , London . Next to Faraday , no one held the attention of a delighted audience in so charming a manner as he did . Like Faraday , he possessed the power of clearly unveiling his subject , and stripping it of all its complicated perplexities . His illustrations were simple , clear , and understandable . Technical words were avoided as much as possible . He threw the ordinary run of lecturers far into the shade . Intelligent boys and girls could understand him . Next to Faraday , no one filled the theatre of the Institution with such eager and crowded audiences as he did . His choice of subjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his lectures instructive and attractive . He was one of the most kind-hearted of men , and the cheerful way in which he laid aside his ordinary business to give instruction and pleasure to others endeared him to a very wide circle of devoted friends . CHAPTER 11 . Bridgewater Foundry  --  Partnership . My business went on prosperously . I had plenty of orders , and did my best to execute them satisfactorily . Shortly after the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway there was a largely increased demand for machine-making tools . The success of that line led to the construction of other lines , concentrating in Manchester ; and every branch of manufacture shared in the prosperity of the time . There was a great demand for skilled , and even for unskilled labour . The demand was greater than the supply . Employers were subjected to exorbitant demands for increased rates of wages . The workmen struck , and their wages were raised . But the results were not always satisfactory . Except in the cases of the old skilled hands , the work was executed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and sometimes , when they ought to have been at work on Monday mornings , they did not appear until Wednesday . Their higher wages had been of no use to them , but the reverse . Their time had been spent for the most part in two days ' extra drinking . The irregularity and carelessness of the workmen naturally proved very annoying to the employers . But it gave an increased stimulus to the demand for self-acting machine tools by which the untrustworthy efforts of hand labour might be avoided . The machines never got drunk ; their hands never shook from excess ; they were never absent from work ; they did not strike for wages ; they were unfailing in their accuracy and regularity , while producing the most delicate or ponderous portions of mechanical structures . It so happened that the demand for machine tools , consequent upon the increasing difficulties with the workmen , took place at the time that I began business in Manchester , and I had my fair share of the increased demand . Most of my own machine tools were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boring , slotting machines , and so on . When set up in my workshop they distinguished themselves by their respective merits and efficiency . They were , in fact , their own best advertisements . The consequence was that orders for similar machines poured in upon me , and the floor of my flat became completely loaded with the work in hand . The tenant below me , it will be remembered , was a glass-cutter . He observed , with alarm , the bits of plaster from the roof coming down among his cut glasses and decanters . He thought that the rafters overhead were giving way , and that the whole of my machinery and engines would come tumbling down upon him some day and involve him in ruin . He probably exaggerated the danger ; still there was some cause for fear . When the massive castings on my floor were moved about from one part to another , the floor quivered and trembled under the pressure . The glass-cutter complained to the landlord , and the landlord expostulated with me . I did all that I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much as possible . But at length , in spite of all my care , an accident occurred which compelled me to take measures to remove my machinery to other premises . As this removal was followed by consequences of much importance to myself , I must endeavour to state the circumstances under which it occurred . My kind friend , John Kennedy , continued to take the greatest interest in my welfare . He called in upon me occasionally . He admired the quality of my work , and the beauty of my self-acting machinery . More than that , he recommended me to his friends . It was through his influence that I obtained an order for a high-pressure steam-engine of twenty horse-power to drive the machinery connected with a distillery at Londonderry , in Ireland . I was afraid at first that I could not undertake the job . The size of the engine was somewhat above the height of my flat , and it would probably occupy too much space in my already overcrowded workshop . At the same time I was most anxious not to let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my friend Mr. Kennedy ; besides , the execution of the engine might lead to further business . At length , after consideration , I undertook to execute the order . Instead of constructing the engine perpendicularly , I constructed it lying upon its side . There was a little extra difficulty , but I managed to complete it in the best style . It had next to be taken to pieces for the purpose of being conveyed to Londonderry . It was then that the accident happened . My men had the misfortune to allow the end of the engine beam to crash through the floor ! There was a terrible scattering of lath and plaster and dust . The glass-cutter was in a dreadful state . He rushed forthwith to the landlord , and called upon him to come at once and judge for himself ! Mr. Wren did come , and did judge for himself . He looked in at the glass shop , and saw the damage that had been done amongst the tumblers and decanters . There was the hole in the roof , through which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lath and plaster . The landlord then came to me . The whole flat was filled with machinery , including the steam-engine on its side , now being taken to pieces for the purpose of shipment to Ireland . Mr. Wren , in the kindest manner , begged me to remove from the premises as soon as I could , otherwise the whole building might be brought to the ground with the weight of my machinery . " Besides , " he argued , " you must have more convenient premises for your rapidly extending business . " It was quite true . I must leave the place and establish myself elsewhere . The reader may remember that while on my journey on foot from Liverpool to Manchester in 1830 , I had rested myself for a little on the parapet of the bridge overlooking the canal near Patricroft , and gazed longingly upon a plot of land situated along the canal side . On the afternoon of the day on which the engine beam crashed through the glass-cutter 's roof , I went out again to look at that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , just as I had seen it some years before . I went to it and took note of its dimensions . It consisted of about six acres . It was covered with turf , and as flat and neat as a bowling-green . It was bounded on one side by the Bridgewater Canal , edged by a neat stone margin 1050 feet long , on another side by the Liverpool and Manchester Railway , while on a third side it was bounded by a good road , accessible from all sides . The plot was splendidly situated . I wondered that it had not been secured before . It was evidently waiting for me ! I did not allow the grass to grow beneath my feet . That very night I ascertained that the proprietor of this most beautiful plot was squire Trafford , one of the largest landed proprietors in the district . Next morning I proceeded to Trafford Hall for the purpose of interviewing the Squire . He received me most cordially . After I had stated my object in calling upon him , he said he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tenants . He gave me a letter of introduction to his agent , Mr. Thomas Lee , of Princes Street , Manchester , with whom I was to arrange as to the terms . I was offered a lease of the six acre plot for 999 years , at an annual rent of 1 3/4d per square yard . This proposal was most favourable , as I obtained the advantage of a fee-simple purchase without having to sink capital in the land . All that I had to provide for was the annual rent . My next step in this important affair was to submit the proposal to the judgment of my excellent friend Edward Lloyd , the banker . He advised me to close the matter as soon as possible , for he considered the terms most favourable . He personally took me to his solicitors , Dennison , Humphreys , and Cunliffe , and introduced me to them . Mr. Humphreys took the matter in hand . We went together to Mr.Lee , and within a few days the lease was signed and I was put into possession of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ * footnote ... I called the place the Bridgewater Foundry as an appropriate and humble tribute to the memory of the first great canal maker in Britain the noble Duke of Bridgewater . My ground was on the first mile of the Bridgewater Canal which the Duke had constructed under the superintendence of Brindley , so that it might well be considered , in an Engineering sense , " classic ground . " ... I may mention briefly the advantages of the site . The Bridgewater Canal , which lay along one side of the foundry communicated with every waterway and port in England whilst the railway alongside enabled a communication to be kept up by rail with every part of the country . The Worsley coal-boats came alongside the wharf , and a cheap and abundant supply of fuel was thus insured . The railway station was near at hand , and afforded every opportunity for travelling to and from the works , while I was at the same time placed within twenty minutes of Manchester . Another important point has to be mentioned . A fine bed of brick-clay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the material for bricks . Thus the entire works may be truly said to have " risen out of the ground ; " for the whole of the buildings rested upon the land from which the clay below was dug and burned into bricks . Then , below the clay lay a bed of New Red Sandstone rock , which yielded a solid foundation for any superstructure , however lofty or ponderous . As soon as the preliminary arrangements for the lease of the six acre plot had been made , I proceeded to make working drawings of a temporary timber workshop ; as I was anxious to unload the floor of my flat in Dale Street , and to get as much of my machinery as possible speedily removed to Patricroft . For the purpose of providing the temporary accommodation , I went to Liverpool and purchased a number of logs of New Brunswick pine . The logs were cut up into planks , battens , and roof-timbers , and were delivered in a few days at the canal wharf in front of my plot . The building of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active carpenters , superintended by my energetic foreman , Archy Torry , several convenient well-lighted workshops were soon ready for the reception of my machinery . I had a four horsepower engine , which I had made at Edinburgh , ready to be placed in position , together with the boiler . This was the first power I employed in starting my new works . I must return for a moment to the twenty horse-power engine , which had been the proximate cause of my removal from Dale Street . It was taken to pieces , packed , and sent off to Londonderry . When I was informed that it was erected and ready for work I proceeded to Ireland to see it begin it 's operations . I may briefly say that the engine gave every satisfaction , and I believe that it continues working to this day . I had the pleasure of bringing back with me an order for a condensing engine of forty horse-power , required by Mr. John Munn for giving motion to his new flax mill , then under construction . I mention this order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executed at the Bridgewater Foundry . This was my first visit to Ireland . Being so near the Giant 's Causeway , I took the opportunity , on my way homewards , of visiting that object of high geologic interest , together with the magnificent basaltic promontory of Fairhead . I spent a day in clambering up the terrible-looking crags . In a stratum of red hematite clay , underneath a solid basaltic crag of some sixty feet or more in thickness , I found the charred branches of trees  --  the remains of some forest that had , at some inconceivably remote period , been destroyed by a vast out-belching flow of molten lava from a deep-seated volcanic store underneath . I returned to Patricroft , and found the wooden workshops nearly finished . The machine tools were , for the most part , fixed and ready for use . In August 1836 the Bridgewater foundry was in complete and efficient action . The engine ordered at Londonderry was at once put in hand , and the concern was fairly started in its long career of prosperity . The wooden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sward soon disappeared . The hum of the driving belts , the whirl of the machinery , the sound of the hammer upon the anvil , gave the place an air of busy activity . As work increased , workmen increased . The workshops were enlarged . Wood gave place to brick . Cottages for the accommodation of the work-people sprang up in the neighbourhood ; and what had once been quiet grassy fields became the centre of a busy population . Image Bridgewater Foundry . From a sketch by Alexander Nasmyth . It was a source of vast enjoyment to me , while engaged in the anxious business connected with the establishment of the foundry , to be surrounded with so many objects of rural beauty . The site of the works being on the west side of Manchester , we had the benefit of breathing pure air during the greater part of the year . The scenery round about was very attractive . Exercise was a source of health to the mind as well as the body . As it was necessary that I should reside as near as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for enjoying the rural scenery of the neighbourhood . I had the good fortune to become the tenant of a small cottage in the ancient village of Barton , in Cheshire , at the very moderate rental of #15 a year . The cottage was situated on the banks of the river Irwell , and was only about six minutes ' walk from the works at Patricroft . It suited my moderate domestic arrangements admirably . The village was surrounded by apple orchards and gardens , and situated in the midst of tranquil rural scenery . It was a great treat to me , after a long and busy day at the foundry , especially in summer time , to take my leisure walks through the green lanes , and pass the many picturesque old farmhouses and cottages which at that time presented subjects of the most tempting kind for the pencil . Such quiet summer evening strolls afforded me the opportunity for tranquil thought . Each day 's transactions furnished abundant subjects for consideration . It was a happy period in my life . I was hopeful for the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When I had got comfortably settled in my cosy little cottage , my dear sister Margaret came from Edinburgh to take charge of my domestic arrangements . By her bright and cheerful disposition she made the cottage a very happy home . Although I had neither the means nor the disposition to see much company , I frequently had visits from some of my kind friends in Manchester . I valued them all the more for my sister 's sake , inasmuch as she had come from a bright household in Edinburgh , full of cheerfulness , part of which she transferred to my cottage . At the same time , it becomes me to say a word or two about the great kindness which I received from my friends and well-wishers at Manchester and the neighbourhood . Amongst these were the three brothers Grant , Benjamin Hick of Bolton , Edward Lloyd the banker , John Kennedy , and William Fairbairn . I had not much leisure during the week days , but occasionally on Sunday afternoons my sister and myself enjoyed their cordial hospitality . In this way I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultivated persons in Lancashire . The remembrance of the delightful evenings I spent in their society will ever continue one of the most cherished recollections of my early days in Manchester . I may mention that one of the principal advantages of the site of my works was its connection with the Liverpool and Manchester Railway , as well as with the Bridgewater Canal . There was a stone-edged roadway along the latter , where the canal barges might receive and deliver traffic in the most convenient manner . As the wharfage boundary was the property of the trustees of the Bridgewater Canal , it was necessary to agree with them as to the rates to be charged for the requisite accommodation . Their agent deferred naming the rent until I had finally settled with Squire Trafford as to the lease of his land , and then , after he supposed he had got me into a cleft stick , he proposed so extravagant a rate that I refused to use the wharf upon his terms . It happened , fortunately for me , that this agent had involved himself in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his retirement . The property then merged into the hands of Lord Francis Egerton , heir to the Bridgewater Estates . The canal was placed under the management of that excellent gentleman , James Loch , M.P . Lord Francis Egerton , on his next visit to Worsley Hall , called upon me at the foundry . He expressed his great pleasure at having us as his near neighbours , and as likely to prove such excellent customers of the canal trustees . Because of this latter circumstance , he offered me the use of the wharf free of rent . This was quite in accordance with his generous disposition in all matters . But as I desired the agreement to be put in a regular business-like form , I arranged with Mr. Loch to pay 5s. per annum as a formal acknowledgment , and an agreement to this effect was accordingly drawn up and signed by both parties . Lord Francis Egerton was soon after created Earl of Ellesmere . He became one of the most constant visitors at the foundry , in which he always took a lively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and enjoy the sight of the active machinery and the work in progress . When he had any specially intelligent visitors at Worsley Hall , which was frequently the case , he was sure to bring them down to the foundry in his beautiful private barge , and lead them through the various departments of the establishment . One of his favourite sights was the pouring out of the molten iron into the moulds for the larger class of castings ; when some twelve or sixteen tons , by the aid of my screw safety ladle , were decanted with as much neatness and exactness as the pouring out of a glass of wine from a decanter . When this work was performed towards dark , Lord Ellesmere 's poetic fancy and artistic eye enabled him to enjoy the sight exceedingly. * footnote ... I had the happiness to receive the kindest and most hospitable attention from Lord Ellesmere and his family . His death , which occurred in 1857 , at the early age of fifty-seven , deprived me of one of my warmest friends . The Countess of Ellesmere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years later . The same kindly feelings still exist in the children of the lamented pair , all of whom evince the admirable qualities which so peculiarly distinguished their parents , and made them universally beloved by all classes , rich and poor . ... I must here say a few words as to my Screw Safety Ladle . I had observed the great danger occasioned to workmen by the method of emptying the molten iron into the casting moulds . The white-hot fluid was run from the melting furnace into a large ladle with one or two cross handles and levers , worked by a dozen or fifteen men . The ladle contained many tons of molten iron , and was transferred by a crane to the moulds . To do this required the greatest caution and steadiness . If a stumble took place , and the ladle was in the slightest degree upset , there was a splash of hot metal on the floor , which , in the recoil , flew against the men 's clothes , set them on fire , or occasioned frightful scalds and burns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invented my Safety Foundry Ladle . I applied a screw wheel , keyed to the trunnion of the ladle , which was acted on by an endless screw attached to the sling of the ladle ; and by this means one man could move the largest ladle on its axis , and pour out its molten contents with the most perfect ease and safety . Not only was all risk of accident thus removed , but the perfection of the casting was secured by the steady continuous flow of the white-hot metal into the mould . The nervous anxiety and confusion that usually attended the pouring of the metal required for the larger class of castings was thus entirely avoided . Image Safety foundry ladle At the same time I introduced another improvement in connection with these foundry ladles which , although of minor importance , has in no small degree contributed to the perfection of large castings . This consisted in hanging " the skimmer " to the edge of the ladle , so as to keep back the scorae that invariably float on the surface of the melted metal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accidents were the consequence . But now the clear flow of pure metal into the moulds was secured , while the scoriae were mechanically held back . All that the attendant has to do is to regulate the inclination of the Skimmer so as to keep its lower edge sufficiently under the surface of the outflowing metal . The preceding illustrations will enable the reader to understand these simple but important technical improvements . These inventions were made in 1838 . I might have patented them , but preferred to make them over to the public . I sent drawings and descriptions of the Safety Foundry Ladle to all the principal founders both at home and abroad ; and I was soon after much gratified by their cordial expression of its practical value . The ladle is now universally adopted . The Society of Arts of Scotland , to whom I sent drawings and descriptions , did me the honour to present me with their large silver medal in acknowledgment of the invention . In order to carry on my business with effectiveness it was necessary that I should have some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " mechanical " department as regards organisation , designing , and construction ; but there was the " financial " business to be attended to ,  --  the counting-house , the correspondence , and the arrangement of money affairs . I wanted some help with respect to these outer matters . When I proceeded to take my plot of land at Patricroft some of my friends thought it a very bold stroke , especially for a young man who had been only about three years in business . Nevertheless , there were others who watched my progress with special interest , and were willing to join in my adventure  --  though adventure it was not . They were ready to take a financial interest in my affairs . They did me the compliment of thinking me a good investment , by offering to place their capital in my concern as sleeping partners . But I was already beyond the " sleeping partner " state of affairs . Whoever joined me must work as energetically as I did , and must give the faculties of his mind to the prosperity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my highly judicious friend Edward Lloyd . He was always willing to advise me , though I took care never to encroach upon his kindness . He concurred with my views , and advised me to fight shy of sleeping partners . I therefore continued to look out for a working partner . In the end I was fortunate . My friend , Mr. Thomas Jeavons , of Liverpool , having been informed of my desire , made inquiries , and found the man likely to suit me . He furnished him with a letter of introduction to me , which he presented one day at the works . The young man became my worthy partner , Holbrook Gaskell . He had served his time with Yates and Cox , iron merchants , of Liverpool . Having obtained considerable experience in the commercial details of that business , and being possessed of a moderate amount of capital , he was desirous of joining me , and embarking his fortune with mine . He was to take charge of the counting-house department , and conduct such portion of the correspondence as did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The latter must necessarily remain in my hands , because I found that the " off-hand " sketches which I introduced in my letters as explanatory of mechanical designs and suggestions were much more intelligible than any amount of written words . I was much pleased with the frank and friendly manner of Mr. Gaskell , and I believe that the feeling between us was mutual . With the usual straight forwardness that prevails in Lancashire , the articles of partnership were at once drawn up and signed , and the firm of Nasmyth and Gaskell began . We continued working together with hearty zeal for a period of sixteen successive years ; and I believe Mr. Gaskell had no reason to regret his connection with the Bridgewater Foundry . The reason of Mr. Gaskell leaving the concern was the state of his health . After his long partnership with me , he was attacked by a serious illness , when his medical adviser earnestly recommended him to retire from all business affairs . This was the cause of his reluctant retirement . In course of time the alarming symptoms departed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embarked in an extensive soda manufactory , in conjunction with one of our pupils , whose taste for chemistry was more attractive to him than engine-making . A prosperous business was established , and at the time I write these lines Mr. Gaskell continues a hale and healthy man , the possessor of a large fortune , accumulated by the skilful manner in which he has conducted his extensive affairs . CHAPTER 12 . Free Trade in Ability  --  The Strike  --  Death of my Father I had no difficulty in obtaining abundance of skilled workmen in South Lancashire and Cheshire . I was in the neighbourhood of Manchester , which forms the centre of a population gifted with mechanical instinct . From an early period the finest sort of mechanical work has been turned out in that part of England . Much of the talent is inherited . It descends from father to son , and develops itself from generation to generation . I may mention one curious circumstance connected with the pedigree of Manchester : that much of the mechanical excellence of its workmen descends from the Norman smiths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Hugo de Lupus , the chief armourer of William the Conqueror , after the battle of Hastings , in 1066 . I was first informed of this circumstance by William Stubbs of Warrington , then maker of the celebrated " Lancashire files . " The " P. S. , " or Peter Stubbs 's files , were so vastly superior to other files , both in the superiority of the steel and in the perfection of the cutting , which long retained its efficiency , that every workman gloried in the possession and use of such durable tools . Being naturally interested in everything connected with tools and mechanics , I was exceedingly anxious to visit the factory where these admirable files were made . I obtained an introduction to William Stubbs , then head of the firm , and was received by him with much cordiality when I asked him if I might be favoured with a sight of his factory , he replied that he had no factory , as such ; and that all he had to do in supplying his large warehouse was to serve out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bars to the workmen ; and that they , on their part , forged the metal into files of every description at their own cottage workshops , principally situated in the neighbouring counties of Cheshire and Lancashire . This information surprised as well as pleased me . Mr. Stubbs proceeded to give me an account of the origin of this peculiar system of cottage manufacture in his neighbourhood . It appears that Hugo de Lupus , William the Conqueror 's Master of Arms , the first Earl of Chester , settled in North Cheshire shortly after the Conquest . He occupied Halton Castle , and his workmen resided in Warrington and the adjacent villages of Appleton , Widnes , Prescot , and Cuerdley . There they produced coats of steel , mail armour , and steel and iron weapons , under the direct superintendence of their chief . The manufacture thus founded continued for many centuries . Although the use of armour was discontinued , the workers in steel and iron still continued famous . The skill that had formerly been employed in forging chain armour and war instruments was devoted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best of files and steel tools of other kinds . Their talents became hereditary , and the manufacture of wire in all its forms is almost peculiar to Warrington and the neighbourhood . Mr. Stubbs also informed me that most of the workmen 's peculiar names for tools and implements were traceable to old Norman-French words . He also stated that at Prescot a peculiar class of workmen has long been established , celebrated for their great skill in clock and watchmaking ; and that , in his opinion , they were the direct descendants of a swarm of workmen from Hugo de Lupus 's original Norman hive of refined metal-workers , dating from the time of the Conquest . To return to my narrative . In the midst of such a habitually industrious population , it will be obvious that there was no difficulty in finding a sufficient supply of able workmen . It was for the most part the most steady , respectable , and well-conducted classes of mechanics who sought my employment  --  not only for the good wages they received , but for the sake of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be remembered that the foundry and the workmen 's dwellings were surrounded by the fresh , free , open country . In the course of a few years the locality became a thriving colony of skilled mechanics . In order to add to the accommodation of the increasing numbers , an additional portion of land , amounting to eight acres , was leased from Squire Trafford on the same terms as before . On this land suitable houses and cottages for the foremen and workmen were erected . At the same time substantial brick workshops were built in accordance with my original general plan , to meet the requirements of our rapidly expanding business , until at length a large and commodious factory was erected , as shown in the annexed engraving . Image Bridgewater Foundry Patricroft . From a painting by Alexander Nasmyth . The village of Worsley , the headquarters of the Bridgewater Canal , supplied us with a valuable set of workmen . They were , in the first place , labourers ; but , like all Lancashire men , they were naturally possessed of a quick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment of these so-called labourers was in transporting heavy castings and parts of machinery from one place to another . To do this properly required great care and judgment , in order that the parts might not be disturbed , and that the mechanics might proceed towards their completion without any unnecessary delay . None but those who have had practical acquaintance with the importance of having skilful labourers to perform these apparently humble , but in reality very important functions , can form an adequate idea of the value of such services . All the requisite qualities we required were found in the Worsley labourers . They had been accustomed to the heaviest class of work in connection with the Bridgewater Canal . They had been thoroughly trained in the handling of all manner of ponderous objects . They performed their work with energy and willingness . It was quite a treat to me to look on and observe their rapid and skilful operations in lifting and transporting ponderous portions of machinery , in which a vast amount of costly work had been embodied . After the machines or engines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same workmen to remove them from the workshops to the railway-siding alongside the foundry , or to the boats at the canal wharf . In all these matters the Worsley men could be thoroughly depended upon . Where they showed the possession , in any special degree , of a true mechanical faculty , I was enabled to select from the working labourers the most effective men to take charge of the largest and most powerful machine tools  --  such as planing machines , lathes , and boring machines . The ease and rapidity with which they caught up all the technical arts and manipulations connected with the effective working of these machines was extraordinary . The results were entirely satisfactory to myself , as well as to the men themselves , by the substantial rise in their wages which followed their advancement to higher grades of labour . Thus I had no difficulty in manning my machine tools by drawing my recruits from this zealous and energetic class of Worsley labourers . It is by this " selection of the fittest " that the true source of the prosperity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trade in Ability has a much closer relation to national prosperity than even Free Trade in Commodities . But here I came into collision with another class of workmen  --  those who are of opinion that employers should select for promotion , not those who are the fittest and most skilful , but those who have served a seven years ' apprenticeship and are members of a Trades ' Union . It seemed to me that this interference with the free selection and promotion of the fittest was at variance with free choice of the best men , and that it was calculated , if carried out , to strike at the root of the chief source of our prosperity . If every workman of the same class went in the same rut , and were paid the same uniform rate of wages , irrespective of his natural or acquired ability , such a system would destroy the emulative spirit which forms the chief basis of manipulative efficiency and practical skill , and on which , in my opinion , the prosperity of our manufacturing establishments mainly depends . But before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which for a time threatened to destroy , or at all events to impede the spirit of enterprise and the free choice of skilful workmen , in which I desired to conduct the Bridgewater Foundry , I desire to say a few words about those excellent helpers , the foremen engineers , who zealously helped me in my undertaking from beginning to end . I must place my most worthy , zealous , and faithful Archy Torry at the top of the list . He rose from being my only workman when I first started in Manchester , to be my chief general foreman . The energy and devotion which he brought to bear upon my interests set a high example to all in my employment . Although he was in some respects deficient in his knowledge of the higher principles of engineering and mechanical construction , I was always ready to supply that defect . His hearty zeal and cheerful temper , and his energetic movement when among the men , had a sympathetic influence upon all about him . His voice had the same sort of influence upon them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : it quickened their movements . We were often called in by our neighbour manufacturers to repair a breakdown of their engines . That was always a sad disaster , as all hands were idle until the repair was effected . Archy was in his glory on such occasions . By his ready zeal and energy he soon got over the difficulty , repaired the engines , and set the people to work again . He became quite famous in these cases of extreme urgency . He never spared himself , and his example had an excellent effect upon every workman under him . Another of my favourite workshop lieutenants was James Hutton . He had been leading foreman to my worthy friend George Douglass , of Old Broughton , Edinburgh . He was fully ten years my senior , and when working at Douglass 's I looked up to him as a man of authority . I had obtained from him many a valuable wrinkle in mechanical and technical construction . After I left Edinburgh he had emigrated to the United States for the purpose of bettering his condition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of settling there , he should be glad to come into my service if I was ever in a position to give him employment . Shortly after my removal to Patricroft , and when everything had been got into full working order , I received a letter from him in which he said that he was anxious to return to England , and asking if there was any vacancy in our establishment that he might be employed to fill up . It so happened that the foremanship of turners was then vacant . I informed Hutton of the post ; and on his return to England he was duly enrolled in our staff . The situation was a very important one , and Hutton filled it admirably . He was a sound practical man , and thoroughly knew every department of engineering mechanism . As I had provided small separate rooms or offices for every department of the establishment for the use of the foremen , where they kept their memoranda and special tools , I had often the pleasure of conferring with Hutton as to some point of interest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the ordeal of his judgment , in order that I might find out any lurking defect in some proposed mechanical arrangement . Before he gave an opinion , Hutton always took a pinch of snuff to stimulate his intellect , or rather to give him a little time for consideration . He would turn the subject over in his mind . But I knew that I could trust his keenness of insight . He would give his verdict carefully , shrewdly , and truthfully . Hutton remained a faithful and valued servant in the concern for nearly thirty years , and died at a ripe old age . Notwithstanding his mechanical intelligence , Hutton was of too cautious a temperament to have acted as a general foreman or manager , otherwise he would have been elevated to that position . A man may be admirable in details , but be wanting in width , breadth , and largeness of temperament and intellect . The man who possesses the latter gifts becomes great in organisation ; he soon ceases to be a " hand , " and becomes a " head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be the employer . Another of my excellent assistants was John Clerk . He had been for a long time in the service of Fairbairn and Lillie ; but having had a serious difference with one of the foremen , he left their service with excellent recommendations . I soon after engaged him as foreman of the pattern-making department . He was a most able man in some of the more important branches of mechanical engineering . He had , besides , an excellent knowledge of building operations . I found him of great use in superintending the erection of the additional workshops which were required in proportion as our business extended . He made out full-sized chalk-line drawings from my original pencil sketches , on the large floor of the pattern store , and from these were formed the working drawings for the new buildings . He had a wonderful power of rapidity and clearness in apprehending new subjects , and the way in which he depicted them in large drawings was quite masterly . John Clerk and I spent many an hour on our knees together on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually was some substantial addition to the workshops of the foundry , or some extra large and powerful machine tool . This worthy man left our service to become a partner in an engineering concern in Ireland ; and though he richly deserved his promotion , he left us to our very great regret . The last of our foremen to whom I shall refer was worthy Thomas Crewdson . He entered our service as a smith , in which pursuit he displayed great skill . We soon noted the high order of his natural ability ; promoted him from the ranks , and made him foreman of the smith 's and forge-work department . In this he displayed every quality of excellence , not only in seeing to the turning out of the forge work in the highest state of perfection , but in managing the men under his charge with such kind discretion as to maintain the most perfect harmony in the workshops . This is always a matter of great importance  --  that the foreman should inspire the workmen with his own spirit , and keep up their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was so systematic in his use of time that we found that he was able also to undertake the foremanship of the boiler-making department , in addition to that of the smith work ; and to this he was afterwards appointed , with highly satisfactory results to all concerned . So strongly and clearly impressed is my mind with the recollection of the valuable assistance which I received during my engineering life from those vicegerents of practical management at Patricroft , that I feel that I can not proceed further in my narrative without thus placing the merits of these worthy men upon record . It was a source of great good fortune to me to be associated with them , and I consider them to have been among the most important elements in the prosperity of the Bridgewater Foundry . There were many others , in comparatively humble positions , whom I have also reason to remember with gratitude . In all well-conducted concerns the law of " selection of the fittest " sooner or later comes into happy action , when a loyal and attached set of men work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of their employers . It was not , however , without some difficulty that we were allowed to carry out our views as to Free Trade in Ability . As the buildings were increased , more men were taken on  --  from Manchester , Bolton , Liverpool , as well as from more distant places . We were soon made to feel that our idea of promoting workmen according to their merits , and advancing them to improved positions and higher wages in proportion to their skill , ability , industry , and natural intelligence , was quite contrary to the views of many of our new employees . They took advantage of a large access of orders for machinery , which they knew had come into the foundry , to wait upon us suddenly , and to lay down their Trade Union law for our observance . The men who waited upon us were deputed by the Engineer Mechanics ' Trades ' Union to inform us that there were men in our employment who were not , as they termed it , " legally entitled to the trade ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven years ' apprenticeship . " These men , " said the delegates , " are filling up the places , and keeping out of work , the legal hands . " We were accordingly requested to discharge the workmen whom we had promoted , in order to make room for members of the Trades ' Union . To have complied with this request would have altered the whole principles and practice on which we desired to conduct our business . I wished , and my partner agreed with me , to stimulate men to steadfast and skilful work by the hope of promotion . It was thus that I had taken several of the Worsley men from the rank of labourers , and raised them to the class mechanics with correspondingly higher wages . We were perfectly satisfied with the conduct of these workmen , and with the productive results of their labour . We thought it fair to them as well as to ourselves to resist the order to discharge them , and we consequently firmly refused to submit to the dictation of the Unionists . The delegates left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retain the illegal men in our employment they would call out the Union men , and strike until " the grievance " was redressed . The Unionists , no doubt , fixed upon the right time to place their case before us . We wanted more workmen to execute the advantageous orders which had come in ; and they thought that the strike would put an entire stop to our operations . On engaging the workmen we had never up to this time concerned ourselves with the question of whether they belonged to the Trades ' Union or not . The only proof we required of a man was Ability . If , after a week 's experience , he proved himself an efficient workman , we engaged him . The strike took place . All the Union men were " called out , " and left the works . Many of them expressed their great regret at leaving us , as they were perfectly satisfied with their employment as well as with their remuneration . But they were nevertheless compelled to obey the mandate of the Council . The result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those who remained were very zealous . Nothing could exceed their activity and workfulness . We appealed to our employers . They were most considerate in not pressing us for the speedy execution of the work we had in hand . We made applications in the neighbourhood for other mechanics in lieu of those who had left us . But the men on strike , under orders from the Union , established pickets round the works , who were only too efficient in preventing those desirous of obtaining employment from getting access to the foundry . Our position for a time seemed to be hopeless . We could not find workmen enough to fill our shops or to execute our orders . What were we to do under the circumstances ? We could not find mechanics in the neighbourhood ; but might they not , be found elsewhere ? Why not bring them from a distance ? We determined to try . Advertisements were inserted in the Scotch newspapers , announcing our want of mechanics , smiths , and foundrymen . We appointed an agent in Edinburgh , to whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receipt of the welcome intelligence that numbers of the best class of mechanics had applied , and that our agent 's principal difficulty consisted in making the proper selection from amongst them . A selection was , however , made of over sixty men , who appeared in every respect likely to suit us . With true Scotch caution they deputed two of their number to visit our works and satisfy themselves as to the real state of the case . We had great pleasure in receiving these two clear-headed cautious pioneers . We showed them over the workshops , and pointed out the habitations in the neighbourhood with their attractive surroundings . The men returned to their constituents , and gave such a glowing account of their mission that we had no difficulty in obtaining the men we required . Indeed , we might easily have obtained three times the number of efficient mechanics . Sixty-four of the most likely men were eventually selected , men in the zenith of their physical powers . We made arrangements for their conveyance to Glasgow , from whence they started for Liverpool by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ port , many of them accompanied by their wives and children , and eight-day clocks ! A special train was engaged for the conveyance of the whole  --  men , women , and children , bag and baggage  --  from Liverpool to Patricroft , where suitable accommodation had been provided for them . The arrival of so powerful a body of//                     